Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission. P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405 Copyright Raymond Peat July 2000

MAIN IDEAS AND CONTEXTS
Lactic acid and carbon dioxide have opposing
effects.
Intense exercise damages cells in ways that
cumulatively impair metabolism. There is clear
evidence that glycolysis, producing lactic acid
from glucose, has toxic effects, suppressing respi-
ration and killing cells. Within_five minutes,
exercise lowers _the_activity_of enzymes that
oxidize glucose. Diabetes, Alzheimer's disease,
and general aging involve increased lactic acid
production and = accumulated — metabolic
(mitochondrial) damage.
The products of glycolysis, lactic acid and
pyruvic acid, [suppress oxidation of glucose.
Adaptation to hypoxia or increased carbon
dioxide limits the formation of lactic acid.
Muscles are 50% more efficient in the adapted
State; glucose, which forms more carbon dioxide
than fat does when oxidized,, is metabolized more
efficiently than fats, requiring less oxygen.
Lactic acidosis, by suppressing oxidation of
glucose, increases oxidation of fats, further
suppressing glucose oxidation.
Estrogen is harmful to mitochondria, progester-
one is beneficial.
Progesterone's brain-protective and restorative
effects involve mitochondrial actions.
Thyroid hormone, palmitic acid, and light
activate a crucial respiratory enzyme, suppressing
the formation of lactic acid. ‘Palmitic acid occurs
in coconut oit, and is formed naturally in animal
tissues. Unsaturated oils have the opposite effect.
Heart failure
shock, and other problems involving excess lactic
acid can be treated "successfully" by poisoning
glycolysis with dichloroacetic acid, reducing the
production of lactic acid, increasing the oxidation
of glucose, and increasing cellular ATP concen-
tration. Thyroid, vitamin B1, biotin, etc., do the

Mitochondria and mortality:
Diet, exercise, and medicine,
damaging or repairing respiratory
metabolism

Since reading Warburg's publications in the
late 1960s and early 70s, and doing my own
research on tissue respiration, I have been
convinced that Warbug was on the right track in
seeing mitochondrial respiration as the controlling
influence in cell differentiation, and in seeing
cancer as a reversion to a primitive form of life
based on a "respiratory defect." Harry Rubin's
studies of cells in culture have expanded
Warburg's picture of the process of cancerization,
showing that genetic changes occur only after the
cells have been transformed into cancer.

It is now well recognized that defective
mitochondrial respiration is a central factor in
diseases of muscles, brain, liver, kidneys, and
other organs. The common view has been that se

mitochondnal defects are produced by genetic
defects, that are either inherited or acquired, and
are irreversible.

Mitochondria depend on some genes in the
nuclear chromosomes, but they also contain some
genes, and mutations in these specific mitochon-
drial genes have been associated with various
diseases, and with aging. Although these aren't
the genes that the cancer establishment has
focussed on as "the cause" of cancer, for people
interested in the achievements of Warburg and
Rubin, it is important to know whether mutations
in these mitochondrial genes are the cause of
respiratory defects, or whether a respiratory defect
causes the mutations. Recent research seems to
show that physiological problems precede and
cause the mutations.

beth

Avon

Tf an qn iv a ate ded

Warburg believed that mitochondria supported
specialized cell functions by concentrating
themselves in the places where energy is needed.
This idea has some interesting implications. For
example, when the amount of thyroid hormone is
increased, or when the organism adapts to a high
altitude, the number _of mitochondma increases.
But in energy deficient states such as diabetes,
they don't. How are these crucial organelles called
into existence by the hormone that increases respi-
ration and energy, and also by the hypoxic condi-
tions of high altitudes? In both of these
conditions, the availability of oxygen is limiting
the ability to produce energy. In both conditions,
carbon dioxide concentration in tissue is higher, in

SOME DEFINITIONS
Glycolysis: The conversion of glucose to lactic acid,
providing some usable energy, but many times less
than oxidation provides.
Lactic acid, produced by splitting glucose to pyruyic
acid followed by its reduction, is associated with
calcium uptake and nitric oxide production, depletes
energy, contributing to cell death.
Crabtree effect: Inhibition of cellular respiration by
an excess of glucose; excess of glucose promotes
calcium uptake by cells.
Pasteur effect: Inhibition of glycolysis (fermen-
tation) by oxygen.
Randle effect: The inhibition of the oxidation of
glucose by an excess of fatty acids. This lowers
metabolic ofictensa Exiogon promotes this effect.
Lactated Ringer's solution: A salt solution that has
been used to increase blood volume in treating shock; th
lactate was apparently chosen as a buffer in place o
bicarbonate as a matier of convenience rather than physi-
ology. This solution is toxic, partly because it contains th
form of lactate produced by bacteria, but our own lactate,
at higher concentrations, produces the same sorts of toxic
effect, damaging mitochondria.
Estrogenic phytotoxins damage mitochondria, kill
brain cells; tofu is associated with dementia.

one case, because thyroid stimulates its
production, in the other, because the Haldane
effect limits its loss from the lungs.

Could carbon dioxide, a major product of
mitochondria, help to call mitochondna into
existence? My answer to this is "yes," and it will
help to briefly explain how I see mitochondria.

Am fuvee alFr FAR Ie

2

ci euy oun +”

Although I have no hesitancy in accepting that
organelles can be exchanged between species, and
that it is conceivable that mitochondria might
have been derived from symbiotic bacteria, | am
reluctant to believe that something happens just
because it could happen. For example, Francis
Crick proposed that life on earth originated when
genes arrived here on space dust from some other
world, That's a theoretical possibility, but what's
the point? It just avoids explaining how the
highly organized material came into existence
somewhere else, and it probably seriously inter-
fered with the consideration of the ways life could
arise here. Similarly, some people like to think
that mitochondria and chloroplasts were originally
bacteria, that came into symbiosis with another
kind of living material, consisting of nucleus and
cytoplasm. Like Crick's "space germs," it can be
argued that it's possible, but the problem is that
this explanation can stop people from thinking
freshly about the nature of the various organelles,
and how they came to exist. (How did cells ongi-
nate? How did rottochondria originate?
"Germs.")

Since I have a view of how cells came to exist,
under conditions that exist on earth, I should
consider whether that view doesn't also reasona-
bly account for their various components, Sidney
Fox's proteinoid microspheres provide a good
model for the spontaneous formation of primitive
cells; variations of that idea can account for the
formation of organelles (such as mitochondna and
nuclei within cells, and chromosomes within
nuclei). The value of this idea, of a self-
stimulating process in mitochondrial generation,
is that it suggests many ways to test the idea
experimentally, and it suggests explanations for
developmental and pathological processes that
otherwise would have no coherent explanation.

Proteinoid microspheres and coacervates form
by acquiring molecules from solution, condensing
them into a separate phase, with its own physical
properties. At every phase boundary, there are
numerous physical forces, especially electronic
properties, that make each kind of interface differ-
ent from other kinds. Small changes of pH,
temperature, of salts and other solutes can alter
the interfacial forces, causing particles to dissolve, —

fvemina

ia ad on EO at 8 4

"ATP TN lee

all

i

Wi Mise RS PUD

(AML 6

D> WUD Yor HM.

TEA TR OG

Yas! MY Oe!

lV eefet Cy

or grow, or fragment, or to move. In the way that
carbon dioxide alters the shapes and electrical

affinities of hemoglobin and other proteins, I

propose that it increases the stability of the
mitochondrial coacervate, causing it to “recruit"
additional proteins from its external environment,

as well as from its own synthetic machinery, to

enlarge both its structure and its functions.

In the relatrve absence of carbon dioxide, or
excess of alternative solutes and adsorbents, such
as lactic acid, the stability of the mitochondrial
phase would be decreased, and the mitochondria
would be degraded in both structure and function.
As the back side of the idea that carbon dioxide
stabilizes and activates mitochondria, the idea that
lactic acid is involved in the degrading of
mitochondria can also be tested experimentally,
and it is already supported by a considerable
amount of circumstantial evidence.

This combination of sensitivity to the environ-
ment, with a kind of positive feedback or inertia
either upward or downward, corresponds to what
we actually see in mitochondrial physiology and
pathology.

The Crabtree effect, which is the suppression
of respiration by glycolysis, 1s often described as
the simple opposite of the Pasteur effect, in which
respiration limits glycolysis to the rate that allows
its product to be consumed oxidatively. But the
Pasteur effect is a normal sort of control system;
when the Pasteur effect fails, as in cancer, there ts
glycolysis which is relatively independent of
respiration, causing sugar to be consumed ineffi-
ciently. Embryonic tissues sometimes behave in
this manacr, leading to the suggestion that giyco-
lysis 1s closely related to growth. Unlike the
logical Pasteur effect, the Crabtree effect tends to
lower cellular energy and adaptability. Looking at
many situations in which increasing the glucose
supply increases lactic acid production and
suppresses respiration, leading to maladaptive
decrease in cellular energy, I have begun thinking
of lactic acid as a toxin. The use of Ringer's
lactate solution in medicine has led many people
to assume that lactate must be beneficial, or they
wouldn't put it in the salt solution that is often
used in cmergiencies; however, I think its use

CKcmrioe's Ce i) tev

here, as a buffer, is simply a convenience, because
of the instability of some bicarbonate solutions.

On the organismic level, it is clear that lactic
acid is "the essence of hyperventilation," and that
it produces edema and malfunction on a grand
scale: The panic reaction, shock lung, vascular
leakiness, brain swelling, and finally multiple
organ failure, all can be traced to an excess of
lactic acid, and the related features of hyperventi-
lated physiology.

Otto Warburg apparently thought of lactate as
simply a sign of the respiratory defect that charac-
terizes cancer. V. S. Shapot at least hinted at its
possible role in turning on the catabolic reactions
leading to cancer cachexia (wasting). I think a
good case can be made for lactate as the cause of
the respiratory defect in cancer, just as it is usually
the immediate cause of the respiratory derange-
ment of hyperventilation on the organismic level.

The Crabtree effect is usually thought of as
Just something that happens in tumors, and some
tissues that are very active glycolytically, and
some bacteria, when they are given large amounts
of glucose. But when we consider lactate, which
is produced by normal tissues when they are
deprived of oxygen or are disturbed by a stress
reaction, the Crabtree effect becomcs a very
general thing. The "respiratory defect" that we
can see on the organismic level during hyperventi-
lation, is very sunilar to the "systemic Crabtree
effect" that happens during stress, in which respi-
ration is shut down while glycolysis is activated.
Since oxidative metabolism is many times more
efficient for producing energy than glycolysis is, it
is maladaptive to shut it down during stress.

Since the presence of lactate is so commonly
considered to be a normal and adaptive response
to stress, the shut-down of respiration in the
presence of lactate is generally considered to be
caused by something else, with lactate being seen

oma free ———— fatty ae are clearly

involved, too. However, glycolysis, and the
products of glycolysis, have
been found to have a causal role in the suppres-
sion of respiration; it is both a cause and a

ree est 40S; BS ¢ “ob [ek Fe f has lten ‘ Crasirec = — Suppre Sign cle ha

Ceftukaire® 2h ladapdadilr

- emerGre

=—

Ge

CAST?

FReVATATN Par Ja Shyeslysc. PAstuit 3 LA Respiration lianek Be ohycly/t
L erret Taste est Novena « So ib TowS« la GlY02 Cn Dip (imen) et le Cece esf

ADS trdependaut de la terpri ak le sow eh CONNMMO ImmrEFiCN CMT.
Facteur amd i ReepiraTOr@ ¢ Dv 1GAR TIA VET OK GN Beaviegy Ce BWR @ ER consi,

Brnele EFI ~ -€4 Suppress O Aseley Hts dy G gs, SfA Ne (2 a Med Ato,

consequence of the respiratory shutdown, though
nitric oxide, calcium, and fatty acids are closely
involved.

Since lactic acid is produced by the breakdown
of glucose, a high level of lactate in the blood
means that a large amount of sugar is being
consumed; in response, the body mobilizes free
fatty acids as an additional source of energy. An
increase of free fatty acids suppresses the oxida-
tion of glucose. (This is called the Randle effect,
glucose-fatty acid cycle, substrate-competition
cycle, etc.) Women, with higher estrogen and
growth hormone, usually have more free fatty
acids than men, and during exercise oxidize a

*higher proportion of fatty acids than men do. This

fatty acid exposure “decreases glucose tolerance,"
and undoubtedly explains women's _ higher
incidence of diabetes. While most fatty acids
inhibit the oxidation of glucose without_immedi-
ately inhibiting glycolysis, /palmitic acid} 1s

unusual, in its inhibition of glycolysis and Tactate

production without inhibitng oxidation. I assume
that this largely has to do with its important
function infcardiolipinjand cytochrome oxidase.

Exercise, like aging, obesity, and diabetes,
increases the levels of circulating free fatty acids
and lactate. But ordinary activity of an integral
sort, activates the systems in an organized way,
increasing carbon dioxide and circulation and

fficiency. Different types of exercise have been
identified as destructive or yeparative to the
mitochondria; }concentric" muscular work is said
to be restorative to the mitochondria. As I under-
stand it, this means contraction with a load, and
relaxation without a load. The heart's contraction
follows this principle, and this could explain the
observation that heart mitochondna don't change
in the course of ordinary aging.

When a person has an accident, or surgery,
and goes into shock, the degree of lactic acidema
is recognized as an indicator of the severity of the
problem. Lactated Ringer's solution has been
commonly used to treat these people, to restore
their blood pressure. But when prompt treatment
with lactated Ringer's solution has been compared
with no early treatment at all; the patients who are
not “rescuscitated" do better than those who got
the early treatment. And when Ringer's lactate has

4

been compared with various other solutions,
synthetic starch solutions, synthetic hemoglobin
polymer solution, or simply a concentrated
solution of sodium chloride, those who received
the lactate solution did least well. For example,
of 8 animals treated with another solution, 8
survived, while among 8 treated with Ringer's
lactate, 6 died.

Mitochondrial metabolism is now being seen
as the basic problem in aging and several degen-
erative diseases. The tendency has been to see
random genetic deterioration as the driving force
behind mitochondrial aging. Genetic repair in
mitochondna was assumed not to occur.
However, recently two kinds of genetic repair
have been demonstrated. One in which the DNA
strand is repaired, and another, in which sound
mitochondria are "recruited" to replace the defec-
tive, mutated, “old" mitochondria.

In ordinary nuclear chromosomal genes, DNA
Tepair is well known. The other kind of repair, in
which unmutated cells replace the. genetically
damaged cells, has been commonly observed in
the skin of the face: During intense sun exposure,
mutant cells accumulate; but after a period in
which the skin hasn't been exposed to the damag-
ing radiation, the skin is made up of healthy
“young” cells.

In the way that the skin can be seen to recover
from genetic damage, that had been considered to
be permanent and cumulative, simply by avoiding
the damaging factor, mitochondnal aging ts
coming to be seen as both avoidable and
repairable.

The stressful conditions that physiologically
harm mitochondria are now being seen as the
probable cause for the mitochondnal genetic
defects that accumulate with aging. Stressful
exercise, which has been known to cause break-
age of the nuclear chromosomes, is now seen to
damage mitochondrial genes, too. Providing
energy, while reducing stress, seems to be all it
takes to reverse the accumulated mitochondnal
genetic damage.

Fewer mitochondrial problems will be consid-
ered to be inherited, as we develop an integral
view of the ways in which mitochondnal physiol-
ogy is disrupted.} Palmitic acid, }which is a major

——
component of the cardiolipin which regulates the
main respiratory enzyme, becomes displaced by
polyunsaturated fats as aging progresses. [Copper
tends to be lost from this same enzyme system,
and the state of the water is altered as the
energetic processes change.

While the flow of carbon dioxide moves from
the mitochondrion to the cytoplasm and beyond,
tending to remove calcium from the mitochon-
drion and cell, the flow of lactate and other
organic ions into the mitochondrion can produce
calcium accumulation in the mitochondrion,
during conditions in which carbon dioxide synthe-
sis, and consequently urea synthesis, are
depressed, and other synthetic processes are
changed.

Glycolysis produces both pyruvate and lactate,
and excessive pyruvate produces almost the same
inhibitory effect as lactate; since the Crabtree
effect involves nitric oxide and fatty acids as well
as calcrum, I think it is reasonable to look for the
simplest sort of explanation, instead of trying to
experimentally trace all the possible interactions
of these substances; a simple physical competition
between the products of glycolysis and carbon
dioxide, for the binding sites, such as lysine, that
would amount to a phase change in the mitochon-
drion. Glucose, and apparently glycolysis, are
required for the production of nitric oxide, as for
the accumulation of calcium, at least in some
types of cell, and these coordinated changes,
which lower energy production. could be
produced by a reduction in carbon dioxide, in a
physical change even more basic than the energy
Jevel represented by ATP The use of Krebs cycle
substances in the synthesis of amino acids, and
other products, would decrease the formation of
CO2, creating a situation in which the system
would have two possible states, one, the glycolytic
stress state, and the other, the carbon dioxide
producing energy-efficient state.

Besides the frequently discussed interactions
of excessively accumulated iron with the unsatu-
rated fatty acids, producing lipid peroxides and
other toxins, the accumulated calcium very proba-
bly forms some insoluble soaps with the free fatty
acids which are released even from intracellular
fats during — stress. The growth of new

mitochondria probably occasionally leaves behind
such useless materials, combining soaps, iron, and
porphyrins remaining from damaged respiratory
enzymes.

“When the background of carbon dioxide is
high, circulation and oxygenation tend to prevent
the anaerobic glycolysis that produces toxic lactic
acid, so that a given level of activity will be
harmful or helpful, depending on the level of
carbon dioxide being produced at rest.

Preventively, avoiding foods containing lactic
acid, such as yogurt and sauerkraut, would be
helpful, since bacterial lactic acid is much more
toxic than the type that we form under stress.
Avoiding the stress-promoting antithyroid unsatu-
rated oils is extremely important. Their role in
diabetes, cancer, and other age-related and degen-
erative diseases (and | think this inchudes the
estrogen-promoted autoimmune diseases) is well
established. Avoiding phytoestrogens and other
things that increase estrogen exposure, such as
protein deficiency, is important, because estrogen
causes increased levels of free fatty acids,
increases the tendency to metabolize them at the
expense of glucose metabolism, increases the
tissue content of unsaturated fatty acids, and
inhibits thyroid functions.

Light promotes glucose oxidation, and is
known to activate the key respiratory enzyme.
Winter sickness (including lethargy and weight
gain), and night stress, have to be included within
the idea of the "respiratory defect," shifting to the
antirespiratory production of lactic acid, and
damaging the mitochondna.

Therapeutically, even powerful toxins that
block the glycolytic enzymes can wnprove
functions in a vanety of organic disturbances
“associated with" (caused by) excessive produc-
tion of lactic acid. Unfortunately, the toxin that
has become standard treatment for lactic
acidosis--dichloroacetic acid--is a carcinogen, and
eventually produces liver damage and acidosis.
But several nontoxic therapies can do the same
things: Palmitate (formed from sugar under the
influence of thyroid hormone, and found in
coconut oil), vitamin B1, biotin, lipoic acid,
carbon dioxide, thyroid, naloxone, acetazola-
mide, for example. Progesterone, by blocking

estrogen's disruptive effects on the mitochondria,
ranks along with thyroid and a diet free of polyun-
saturate fats, for importance in mitochondrial

maintenance.
REFERENCES
Biochim Biophys Acta 1999 Feb 9;1410(2):171-82
Mitochondrial involvement in Alzheimer's

disease.Bonilla E, Tanji K, Hirano M, Vu TH, DiMauro S,
Schon EA.

Rev Pneumol Clin 1986;42(5):238-41. Acid-base
balance and blood lactate and pyruvate levels in albino
rats bred under normobaric hypoxia or normoxia, after
muscular work in a hypoxic or hypoxic-hypercapnic
environment. Quatrini U, Licciardi A.

Muscle Nerve 1999 Feb;22(2):258-61. Acute exercise
causes mitochondrial DNA deletion in rat skeletal
muscle. Sakai ‘’, Iwamura Y’, clayasni J, Yaiuamoto N,
Ohkoshi N, Nagata H.

Hum Mol Genet 1999 Jun;8(6):1047-52. Gene shifting:
a novel therapy for mitochondrial myopathy. Taivassalo
T, Fu K, Johns T, Arnold D, Karpati G, Shoubridge EA.

Brain Dev 1989;11(3):195-7. Effect of sodium dichlo-
roacetate on human pymuivyate metabolism. Naito E,
Kuroda Y, Toshima K, Takeda E, Saijo T, Kobashi H,
Yokota I, Ito M.

Mech Ageing Dev 1987 Aug;39(3):281-8. Lack of
age-dependent changes in rat heart mitochondria.
Manzelmann MS, Harmon HJ.

Adv Shock Res 1978;1:105-16. The effect of
mitochondrial dysfunction on glucose metabolism during
shock. Rhodes RS.

Biochem J 1982 Dec 15;208(3):695-70] Exercise-
induced alterations of hepatic mitochondrial function.
Tate CA, Wolkowicz PE, McMillin-Wood, J.

Am J Physiol 1997 Dec;273(6 Pt 2):F869-76.
Neurosteroid inhibition of cell death. Waters SL, Miller
GW, Aleo MD, Schnellmann RG.

J Pharmacol Exp Ther 1990. May;253(2):628-35.
Protection against hypoxic injury in isolated-perfused
rat heart by ruthenium red. Park Y, Bowles DK, Kehrer
JP. .

Environ Health Perspect 1984, Aug;57:281-7. Cell
calcium, cell injury and cell death. Trump BF, Berezesky
Ik, Sato T, Laiho KU, Phelps PC, DeClaris N.

Anesth Analg 1996 Oct;83(4):782-8. Small-volume
resuscitation using hypertonic saline improves organ
perfusion in burned rats. Kien ND, Antognini JF, Reilly
DA, Moore PG.

Respir Physiol 1977 Dec;31(3):387-95. Post-
hypercapnia recovery in the dog: arterial blood acid-
base equilibrium and glycolysis. Saunier C, Horsky P,
Hannhart B, Garcia-Carmona T, Hartemann D.

Am J Physiol 1997 Nov;273(5 Pt 1):C1732-8 Glycoly-
sis inhibition by palmitate in renal cells cultured in a
two-chamber system. Bolon C; Gauthier C; Simonnet H.

é

/

/

Can J Appl Physiol 1998 Dee23(6):558-69. The role
of glucose in the regulation of ‘substrate interaction
during exercise. Sidossis LS.

Am J Clin Nutr 1998 Mar; 616 Suppl):5278-530S.
Effect “of lipid oxidation on glucose utilization in
humans. Jequier E.

Ann N Y Acad Sci 1998 Nov 20;854:224-38.
Mitochondrial free radical production and aging in
mammals and birds. Barja G.

Science 1999 Aug 27;285(5432):1390-3. Gene
expression profile of aging and its retardation by caloric
restriction. Lee CK, Klopp RG, Weindmich R, Prolla TA.

Nucleic Acids Res 1999 Nov 15;27(22):4510-6. Nitric
oxide-induced damage to mtDNA and its subsequent
repair. Gnshko VI, Druzhyna N, LeDoux SP, Wilson GL.

Am J] Physiol 1998 Jun;274(6 Pt 1):G978-83. Neural
injury, repair and adaptation in the GI tract. L New
insichts Inte neuronal injury: a cautionary tale. (lal! KE
Wiley JW.

Proc Natl Acad Sci US A 1999 Dec 21;96(26):14706-
14711. Structural details of an interaction between
cardiolipin and an integral membrane protein. McAuley
KE, Fyfe PK, Ridge JP, Isaacs NW, Cogdell RJ, Jones MR.

J. Appl Physiol 1991 Apr;70(4):1720-30.. .Metabolic
and work efficiencies during exercise in Andean natives.
Hochachka PW, Stanley C, Matheson GO, McKenzie DC,
Allen PS, Parkhouse WS.

J Dev Physiol 1990 Sep;14(3):139-46. Effect of lactate
and beta-hydroxybutyrate infusions on brain metabo-
lism in the fetal sheep. Harding JE, Charlton VE.

J Trauma 1999 Feb;46(2):286-91, The effects of
diaspirin cross-linked hemoglobin on hemodynamics,
metabolic acidosis, and survival in burned rats.: Soltero
RG; Hansbrough JF.

J Trauma 1999 Apr;46(4):582-8, discussion 588-9,
Resuscitation with lactated Ringer's solution in rats with
hemorrhagic shock induces immediate apoptosis. Deb S;
Martin B; Sun L; Ruff P: Burris D; Rich N; DeBreux 5;
Austin B; Rhee P.

Am J Physiol 1996 Oct;271(4 Pt 1):C1244-9, Glucose
and pyruvate regulate cytokine-induced nitric oxide
production by cardiac myecytes. Oddis CV; Finkel MS.

Biochim Biophys Acta 1999 Feb 9:1410(2):171-82.
Mitochondrial invelvement in Alzheimer's disease.
Bonilla E, Tanji K, Hirano M, Vu TH, DiMauro S, Schon
EA.

Adv Exp Med Biol 1995;384:185-94. Metabolic
correlates of fatigue from different types ef exercise in
man. Vollestad NK.

J Biol Chem 1995 Jun 23;270(25):14855-8. Nitric
oxide activates the glucose-dependent mobilization of
arachidonic acid in a macrophage-like cell line (RAW
264.7) that is largely mediated by calcium-independent
phospholipase A2. Gross RW; Rudolph AE; Wang J;
Sommers CD; Wolf MJ.

>

