Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission. Raymond Peat, PO Box 5764, Eugene OR 97405 January 2001

Fibrosis is an outstanding feature of
aging: Skin, joints, liver, kidneys, heart and

blood vessels, even the brain, undergo
fibrotic changes in association with disease,
injury, and aging.

Excitotoxins are fibrogenic

Estrogen is excitotoxic and fibrogenic

Laciate is fibrogenic

Edema precedes fibrosis

Injury and inflammation are fibrogenic

Free radical peroxidation is a common
pathway leading to fibrosis, as in cirrhosis of
the liver in which unsaturated fats and free
radicals have central roles.

Saturated fats, antihistamines, thyroid |

hormone, and other antiinflammatory agents
prevent or reverse fibrosis.

The fibrous extracellular material
regulates specialized cellular functioning,
and is a protective buffer. :

Fibrogenesis commonly
carcinogenesis.

Cancerization is a "field process," not
primarily a unique "genetic event."

Proteolytic enzymes continuously dissolve
and remodel the extracellular matrix.

Unsaturated fats inhibit proteolytic
enzymes.

The resistance of the fibrin in blood clots
to enzymic dissolution is increased by
unsaturated fats.

Antifibromatogenic hormones oppose the
development of the fibromas and cancers
that are caused by estrogen.

The first principle in reversal is to stop
the pathogenic process, and to stop the
stress- induced cell death. Then restorative
processes can come into balance with

precedes

degenerative.

FIBROSIS: Estrogen, stiffness,
excitotoxicity, aging--a
problem more general than
"collagen disease"

Thirty years ago, my professors said that any
publication more than ten years old wasn't worth
reading; that was apparently why I never saw the
professors in the library. In a span of ten years, a
change of 45 degrees in scientific orientation is
thought to be progress. But in 40 years, those
changes of orientation can produce a turn of 180
degrees, in which things that once seemed to be
firmly established and full of potential have
simply been removed from the academic canon.
The biology of fibrosis is one of those important
things that came to be neglected even while
massive amounts of new evidence were confirm-
ing the old views.

At the beginning of the 20th century, Eli
Metchnikov argued that changes in the connective
tissues were the cause of aging. He also argued
that intestinal toxins were important causes of the
aging changes.

Early in the century, x-rays were found to
produce tissue burns. The early effect of a radia-
tion burn is inflammation and edema. The edema
gradually gives way to fibrosis, and if the person
lives long enough, the fibrotic tissue may calcify.

In the 1930s, Leo Loeb found that large doses
of estrogen stimulated massive synthesis of colla-
gen in the uterus.and vagina, and noticed that
these effects resembled the increased accumula-
tion of collagen that occurs with aging. In the
1940s, Alexander Lipshutz showed that very
small, but continuous, doses of estrogen caused
fibromas to develop in many tissues besides the
uterus, and that these fibromas tended to develop

into cancers. Later, estrogen was found to acceler-
ate the stiffening of the collagenous tissues that
normally occurs with aging.

In the 1930s, the Shutes, father and sons,
found that the clotting-associated diseases of
pregnancy were prevented by vitamin E, and they
proposed that vitamin E acts as an antiestrogen,
protecting against the increased clotting problems
caused by excessive estrogen. They showed that
vitamin E activates the proteolytic, fibrinolytic,
enzymes that remove blood clots.

Conventional beliefs identified vitamin E as
an antioxidant that prevented oxidation of unsatu-
rated fats, and this function of vitamin E appeared
to make it inconceivable that vitamin E could also
be of value in relation to the circulatory system.
This attitude was stil] dominant in the 1970s
among dietitians, physicians, and university
professors. Besides ignoring or ridiculing the
Shutes' work, mainstream journals would
occasionally publish papers denying that vitamin
E facilitates clot removal, or that estrogen
promotes clotting, attempting to defend their 180
degree turn.

Just after the turn of the century, unsaturated
fats were found to inhibit proteolytic enzymes.
Repeatedly, the presence of unsaturated fatty acids
has been shown to impair clot removal, either by
its effect on proteolytic enzymes, or by being
incorporated into the clot and making it resistant
to dissolution.

Fibrin, the material that forms blood clots, is
always in the process of formation and
dissolution, in a kind of equilibrium. A thin layer
of it coats the outside of blood cells, and the inside
of blood vessels. When capillaries are leaky, some
of the fibrin and its depolymerized subunits, leak
out into the tissues. There is a complex interaction
between fibrin and collagen, in which fibrin
stimulates the formation of collagen (AJ Gray, et
al., 1995) and collagen stimulates the fibrin
clotting process.* Fibrin clots stimulate the
growth of fibroblasts, and leaky blood vessels
(Brown, et al., 1989) can lead to tissue fibrosis,
though there are routes to fibrosis that don't
involve fibrin.

Blood vessels leak under the influence of
estrogen, irradiation, oxygen deprivation, vitamin

E deficiency, free fatty acids, lactic acid, and
various stress mediators, such as histamine and
serotonin; particles as large as red blood cells can
pass right through the endothelial cells. The loss
of the blood vessels' ability to serve as a barrier
corresponds to a disturbance in the structure of the
cells, and this structural permeability is apparently
the result of an imbalance in the state of the
electrons in the proteins, the redox (reduction and
oxidation) state, regulated by glutathione and
other antioxidants and energy regulators.

The internal state of any cell, not just in the
blood vessels, is governed in similar ways by
cellular energy and the redox state of proteins, and
in the oxidatively disturbed state, cells take up
water, a3 well as being abnormally "periaeavic” in
both directions. For example, when a cell is
deficient in vitamin E it loses molecules such as
ATP and proteins, that diffuse out into the extra-
cellular spaces. When cells are in an energy
deficient state, as in hypothyroidism, they are in
this leaky, edematous state.

This state of near exhaustion is similar to the
"excitotoxic" state that's caused by an imbalance
between stimulation and energy production. In the
brain, excitotoxins have been found to produce a
kind of fibrosis, in which the cells that normally
produce the myelin sheath surrounding nerve
axons begin producing collagen, and appear to
change into a type of cell (Schwann cell) that is
not normally found in the brain. The production
of collagen seems to be a very basic kind of
defensive reaction to excessive stimulation or
oxygen deprivation. This makes it possible to see
"excitotoxicity" as a general process, that includes
the kind of fibrosis and calcification of skin that
Hans Selye produced (by combining vitamin E
deficiency with heavy metal toxicity and local

*In the 1920s, W. F. Koch was proposing
that oxidative free-radical processes governed the
clotting of blood, the healing of wounds, and
possibly the calcification of devitalized tissues. At
that time, free radicals were an esoteric matter of
interest mainly to a few polymer chemists, and it
was considered absurd to suggest that cellular
respiration could relate to extracellular fibrous
matter.

irritation), as well as the aging of brain cells
produced by prolonged estrogenic stimulation.
Scleroderma, like the other "collagen diseaes,"
affects women (during their reproductive years)
much more often than men. Retroperitoneal fibro-
sis, which can seriously damage the kidneys and
other abdominal organs, has been compared to
uterine fibroid tumors, and it is commonly treated
successfully with the antiestrogenic drug,
tamoxifen. Tamoxifen has also been used to treat
keloids and to prevent abnormal scars in plastic
surgery. (I have seen keloids regress quickly
following the application of vitamin E with anties-
trogenic hormones.) The fibrotic response to the
excitotoxic imbalance can be seen in practically
all chronic and degenerative diseases.

Fibrosis is an abnormal progression of the
normal formation of fibrous material between
cells, and it usually involves an imerease in the
volume of the extracellular material, and an
increase in the percentage of collagen in that
matrix, and an increased rigidity of the collagen
that results from chemical cross-links, that are
analogous to the polymerization of a plastic, or the
vulcanizing of rubber. Arteriosclerosis is probably
the best known medical example of tissue fibrosis,
but it's the same phenomenon that makes the meat
from an old animal tough and rubbery.

Although "stiffness" is a familiar term in
engineering and biology, it has some different
meanings in different situations. When a tissue
swells up with water until it's tight, it is stiffer
than in its natural condition: The material of
tendons and ligaments gets stiffer by increasing its
density and toughness. When a bone gets old, it
gets brittle and weak, and in one sense it is stiffer
than a child's bone, since a child's. bone can be
deformed without breaking. While the engineering
definitions can't be applied to all tissues in a
simple way, biologically it's useful to think of
stiffness as something that progresses along with
fibrosis, as the function of a tissue decreases. In
the first stage of tissue injury, swelling stiffens a
tissue; after prolonged edema, there may be an
increased volume and concentration of collagen
around cells; finally, the density of the collagen
can increase, and can calcifiy, as in the sclera of

the eye, the arteries, heart valves, pericardium,
and even the heart muscle itself.

In diseases of stress and aging, there is a
general inflammatory state, that can end in mullti-
ple organ failure. Congestive heart failure illus-
trates some of the effects of this energy-poor,
inflamed and edematous state: The heart's
function is reduced because of stiffness caused by
increased water and calcium in the cells; at the
same time, arteries are stiff and resistant, impair-
ing the flow of blood and making regulation of
blood pressure difficult. In chronic hypothyroid-
ism, the heart gradually becomes fibrotic, and this
provides an opportunity for calcification to occur.

If a callus is a metaphor for the normal,
protective function of connective tissue, then a
corm is a metaphor for the harmful overdevelop-
ment of the protective reaction. The ordinary
minor mechanical tensions and pressures that
occur in any living animal, as well as the
biochemical gradients produced by metabolizing
cells, shape the connective tissues that keep cells
in their particular place in the organism. When
gelatin, made by boiling connective tissues in
water, iS injected into a growing organism, the
randomly arranged molecules of the melted colla-
gen can be seen to organize themselves back into
the coherently aligned cable-like structures of
normal connective tissue.

Cells decide what they will be and do accord-
ing to their surroundings. Normally, cells live in
contact with a layer of non-cellular material
containing fibrous and elastic and gelatinous
material, that functions as a medium of communi-
cation with other cells. Irritation, stress, and shock
commonly produce a series of tissue reactions,
including edema, fibrosis, calcification, and death,
but with certain possible alternatives, such as a
return to the normal state, or early cell death, or
lipodystrophy (fatty degeneration), or tumefaction
(development into a tumor).

Although there are specialized cells, fibro-
blasts, that form large amounts of connective
tissue, they are very closely related to muscle
cells, fat cells, and glial cells, and the functions of
one can sometimes change into those of another
type. One of the main problems of biology in the

last century has been to understand the factors that
cause one kind of cell to change into another. One
of the functions of the collagen layer secreted
around cells appears to be to provide a degree of
insulation from the numerous "inductive" factors,
so that a cell can remain what it is.

Conditions in the whole organism affect the
way an individual cell will relate to its immediate
environment. Nutritional deficiencies or imbal-
ances will make special demands on certain types
of tissue. Increased collagen production can
provide some protection against toxins, but the
protective layer also limits the cells' access to the
blood supply.

Cells in their excited and exhausted state are
increasingly open to peictration of the toxins,
because of their own increased permeability, and
because of the increased leakiness of the blood
vessels. Certain environmental toxins accumulate
more rapidly as the cells lose their ability to
destroy them. Several kinds of toxin, including the
unsaturated fats, inhibit the proteolytic enzymes
that remodel tissue, and reduce the ability to
dismantle and rebuild the extracellular matrix.

Collagen is a very unusual protein, since it
lacks tryptophan and cysteine, and contains a very
high percentage of glycine. Glycine is the simplest
amino acid, and serves as an_ inhibitory
transmitter. It has some remarkable protective
activities against toxins, but even the process of
forming it has some uniquely protective conse-
quences: It is made from sugar, with the addition
of ammonia removed from glutamic acid, leaving
ketoglutaric acid as the product; ketoglutarate is a
component of the Krebs cycle. In effect, the
formation of glycine helps to eliminate an excito-
toxin while replenishing the pathway of oxidative
metabolism. When collagen is dissolved, a large
amount of the antitoxic glycine is released, but not
a bit of the excitotoxic antithyroid amino acids
cysteine and tryptophan.

The increased energy deficiency produced by
accumulated toxins and fibrosis can stimulate the
production of porphyrins for the heme enzymes
that control respiration and detoxification, and this
can lead to the production of carbon monoxide
and other anti-respiratory factors. Increasing
amounts of ammonia and lactic acid circulate

through the tissues. As excitatory states replace
the capacity for resting inhibition, increased
amounts of many hormones and other signal
substances circulate, and many of them are
produced in unusual sites, often in the same
tissues that respond to them, as when a bréast
cancer produces estrogen. In the absence of
communication between the tissue and _ its
environment, these locally produced factors
probably serve to maintain local homeostasis, but
at the expense of the functions of the whole
organism.

In every different part of the body, the extra-
cellular matrix reflects the individuality of its cell
types and their particular function. But as the
bouy's exposure to ioxic imbalances progresses,
the general properties of deterioration start to
become more important than the specialized
functions.

To reverse this process, it's necessary to avoid
doing the things that caused the problem to
develop. The accumulation of heavy metals and
of the unstable unsaturated fats (linoleic,
linolenic, and arachidonic acids) can be slowed or
reversed by careful dietary choices. The calorie-
restricted diets that slow the aging process reduce
the accumulation of the unstable fats and the
heavy metals. Vitamin E reduces the vascular
leakiness and the free radical peroxidation that are
so closely involved in fibrosis. Since serotonin
and nitric oxide are involved in these processes,
they should be minimized by keeping carbon
dioxide production high (by optimizing thyroid,
function), and by eating proteins that have a safe’
balance of the amino acids. Too much arginine= |
increases nitric oxide formation, and too much
tryptophan increases serotonin production.
much glutamic acid aspartic acid, and cysteine can
be directly excitotoxic, and the metabolites of
cysteine include proinflammatory homocysteine,
which can disrupt collagen structure.

Since estrogen is often a promoter of fibrosis,
acting in a variety of ways, it should be kept under
control by eating enough protein, keeping thyroid
function relatively high, and if necessary by using
progesterone and other antiestrogenic hormones.
A protein deficiency is thrombogenic (clot
forming), and probably excitotoxic.

‘t

-

AW a

Foo -|*-
REFERENCES

Metchnikov, E., 1908, The Prolongation of
Life, GP Putnam's Sons, NY.

Loeb, L, et al. 1939, Changes in the nature
of the stroma in vagina, cervix and uterus of
the mouse produced by long continued injec-
tions of oestrogens and by advancing age, Amer
J Cancer 35, 159.

Lipshutz, A, 1950, Steroid Hormones and
Tumors.

Arvay, A., et ai., 1971, The effect of intensive
nervous stimulation on certain physico-
chemical properties of rat tail tendon and
uterus collagen, Gerontologia 17, 157-169. 1971

Chvapil, M., et al, Effect of long term
hypoxia on protein synthesis in granuloma and
in some organs in rats, Proc Soc Exp Biol Med
135, 613-617.1970.

Casarett, GW, 1963, Concept and criteria of
radiologic ageing, In: Cellular Basis and
Aetiology of Late Somatic Effects of Ionizing
Radiation, RJC Harris, editor, p. 189. Academic
Press, NY.

Neurosci Lett 1989 Nov 6;105(3):246-50.
Presence of Schwann cells in neurodegenera-
tive lesions of the central nervous system.
Dusart I, Isacson O, Nothias F, Gumpel M,
Peschanski M. Ultrastructural analysis of neurode-
generative CNS lesions produced by an excito-
toxic substance revealed that the majority of
cells ensheathing axons were not oligodendro-
cytes. By their morphology and the presence of
both a basal lamina and collagen fibers they
were identified as Schwann cells. The presence
of Schwann cells, whose growth-promoting role
in the peripheral nervous system has been
largely documented, may account for the devel-
opment of regenerating growth cones which
have been observed in the _ excitotoxically
lesioned central nervous system. Further support
for this hypothesis came from the analysis of fetal
neural transplants implanted into the lesioned
area. Schwann cells ensheathing axons were

indeed numerous in the neuron-depleted area
surrounding the transplants, where neurite
outgrowth of graft origin occurred.

Am Rev Respir Dis 1989 Oct;140(4):1104-7.
Leaky vessels, fibrin deposition, and fibrosis: a
sequence of events common to solid tumors
and to many other types of disease. Brown LF,
Dvorak AM, Dvorak HF. Solid tumors must
induce new blood vessels if they are to grow
beyond minimal size. As an initial step in this
process, tumors secrete a vascular permeability
factor that renders the local microvasculature
hyperpermeable to fibrinogen and to other plasma
proteins. Extravasated fibrinogen is rapidly
clotted to crosslinked fibrin gel. Over time, this
gei is invaded by macrophages, fibroblasts, and
endothelial cells and undergoes “organization,”
such that it is replaced by vascularized granulation
tissue and finally by mature connective tissue.
This sequence of events is not unique to tumors
but occurs in wound-healing and in a wide variety
of other disease processes, including some that
prominently affect the lung.

Rheum Dis Clin North Am _ 1996
Nov;22(4):751-64. Scleroderma epidemiology.
Mayes M.D. "Risk factors for disease develop-
ment include female gender. .. ."

Int J Fertil Womens Med = 1998
Sep-Oct;43(5):229-34. Collagen disease: the
enemy within. Lahita RG Columbia University,
Saint Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Center, New
York, New York 10019, USA. "Surprisingly,
the autoimmune diseases predominate in
women of childbearing years."

Medicina (B Aires) 1985;45(2):110-6. [Fibro-
sis and cirrhosis in the rabbit induced by dieth-
ylstilbestrol and its inhibition with progester-
one]. [Article in Spanish] Lanari A, de Kremer
GH.

J Steroid Biochem 1983 Jul;19(1A):109-111.
Specific cell adhesion to estradiol-derivatized
agarose beads Nenci I. Estrogen-target cells in
suspension adhere to agarose beads derivatized
with estradiol. The interaction is shown to be
specific and saturable by appropriate control tests.

Medicina (B Aires) 1983;43(6 Pt 1):677-681.
[Effect of progesterone on the development of
experimental pleural adhesions]. [Article in

Spanish] Garegnani TC, Barcat JA, Pistoia OA,
Lanari A
_ Fertil Steril 1983 Oct;40(4):542-544. Effect of
medroxyprogesterone acetate on peritoneal
adhesion formation. Holtz G, Neff M, Mathur S,
Perry LC.

Fertil Steril 1984 Oct;42(4):538-542. Evalua-
tion of progestogens for postoperative adhesion
prevention. Beauchamp PJ, Quigley MM, Held
B.

Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand 1971;50(1):61-62
Luteal insufficiency and pelvic adhesions.
Johansson ED, Persson BH, Gemzell C.

Ups J Med Sci 1989;94(2):137-152. Coagula-
tion and fibrinolysis during the normal
menstrual cycle. Siegbahn A, Odlind V, Hedner
U, Venge P. "In 7/13 women substantial fluctua-
tions of the fibrinolytic activities during the cycle
were seen. Four women had a significant fall of
the fibrinolytic activity after venous occlusion
during the late luteal phase (phase 4) and 3 others
during the menstrual phase (phase 5). No
co-varlation between the fibrinolytic activities and
PAI-1 was found. Multiple regression analysis
showed a co-variation between fibrinolytic activi-
ties and progesterone.”

Int J Fertil 1988 Mar;33(2):139-142. Effects
of progesterone on postoperative adhesion
formation in hysterectomized rabbits. Confino
E, Friberg J, Vermesh M, Thomas W, Gleicher N.
"Subgrouping of adhesion formation into
adhesions formed by major surgical tissue trauma
or minor peritoneal damage revealed a beneficial
effect of progesterone in the reduction of only
minor adhesion formation."

Fertil Steril 1983 Apr;39(4):485-489. The
effect of aqueous progesterone on operative
adhesion formation. Maurer JH, Bonaventura
LM. "Adhesion formation was significantly
reduced (P less than 0.001) in all treatment groups
when compared with the control group. Aqueous
P may have a role in the prevention of adhesion
formation associated with pelvic surgery and, in
particular, microscopic tubal and ovarian surgery."

Am J Physiol 1999 Nov;277(5 Pt 1):L952-9.
Production of superoxide and TNF-alpha from

alveolar macrophages is blunted by glycine.
Wheeler MD, Thurman RG.

Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 2000
Aug;279(2):L390-8 Dietary glycine blunts lung
inflammatory cell influx following acute
endotoxin. Wheeler MD, Rose ML, Yamashima
5S, Enomoto N, Seabra V, Madren J, Thurman RG.
"Acute dietary glycine prevents mortality and
blunts increases in serum tumor necrosis factor-
alpha (TNF-alpha) following endotoxin in rats."
"Chronic glycine improves survival by unknown
mechanisms, but reduction of lung inflammation
is likely involved."

Circ Res 1992 Oct;71(4):831-9. Decreased
collagen gene expression and absence of fibro-
sis in thyroid hormone-induced myocardial
hypertrophy. Response of cardiac fibroblasts
to thyroid hormone in vitro. Yao J, Eghbali M.
"In this study we examined the effects of
thyroid hormone on collagen gene expression in
thyroid hormone-induced myocardial hypertrophy
and the response of cardiac fibroblasts to thyroid
hormone in culture." "Collagen synthesis as
shown by immunofluorescent staining of intracel-
lular collagen in cultured fibroblasts and in frozen
sections of myocardium was also diminished."

Cardiovasc Res 1992 Jun;26(6):603-7.
Decreased collagen mRNA and regression of
cardiac fibrosis in the ventricular myocardium
of the tight skin mouse following thyroid
hormone treatment. Yao J, Eghbali M. "The aim
was to study the effect of thyroid hormone on
collagen gene expression in the myocardium of
the tight skin mouse (TSK), a genetic model of
myocardial fibrosis." "Effects of thyroid hormone
on ventricular gene expression in TSK mice result
in a diminished collagen mRNA and collagen
content and the disappearance of cardiac fibrosis.
Thyroid hormone may selectively prevent the
induction of cardiac fibrosis and play an important
role in regression of cardiac fibrosis via endocrine
pathways."

J Mol Cell Cardiol 1998 Nov;30(11):2495-
506. An activator proteim-1 (AP-1) response
element on pro alphal(l) collagen gene is neces-
sary for thyroid hormone-induced inhibition of
promoter activity in cardiac fibroblasts. Lee
HW, Klein LE, Raser J, Eghbali-Webb M.

"Thyroid hormone-induced ventricular hyper-
trophy is characterized by the absence of fibro-
sis. Previously, we demonstrated that thyroid
hormone inhibits collagen type I gene expres-
sion in the myocardium and in cardiac fibro-
blasts. We also demonstrated that thyroid
hormones act as inhibitor of pro alphal(l)
collagen promoter activity."

Mol Cell Endocrinol 2000 =Apr
25;162(1-2):45-55. Molecular characterization
of myocardial fibrosis during hypothyroidism:
evidence for negative regulation of the
pro-alphal(I) collagen gene expression by
thyroid hormone receptor. Chen WJ, Lin KH,
Lee YS. First Cardiovascular Division, Chang
Gung Memorial Hospital, Taiwan. "The purpose
of this study was to gain insights into the
underlying mechanism of myocardial fibrosis

during hypothyroidism. Treatment of cardiac .

fibroblasts with a medium lacking thyroid
hormone led to a 47% increase in [3H]thymid-
ine incorporation into the cell nuclei compared
with that in untreated cells."

Acta Pathol Jpn 1984 Jul;34(4):797-811.
Progeria with cardiac hypertrophy and review
of 12 autopsy cases in the literature. Shozawa T,
Sageshima M, Okada E. "Histologic findings
suggest that increasing of collagen in the connec-
tive tissue may play an important role in proge-
ria. Further study of metabolic disturbance in
the connective tissue of progeria is necessary."

Exp Cell Res 1999 May 1;248(2):634-42.
Differential regulation of PAI-1 gene expres-
sion in human fibroblasts predisposed to a
fibrotic phenotype. Higgins PJ, Slack JK,
Diegelmann RF, Staiano-Coico L.

Adv Perit Dial 1994;10:225-9. In vitro influ-
ence of lactate on function of peritoneal fibro-
blasts. Breborowicz A, Martis L, Oreopoulos DG
"The authors studied the effect of sodium lactate
(NaLact) on the function of human peritoneal
fibroblasts (F) in vitro." "When applied to fibro-
blast monolayers, NaLact (40 mM) increased the
synthesis of total proteins by 10%. Exposure of
the fibroblasts to NaLact did not increase noncol-
lagen protein production, and the observed
increase in total protein synthesis was due to the
increased synthesis of collagen." "... NaLact is

specifically responsible for the increased
production of collagen by peritoneal fibro-
blasts, leading to the deposition of masses of
collagen in the extracellular space."

Am J Physiol 1994 Oct;267(4 Pt 2):H1557-64.
Loss of elastic recoil in postischemic myocar-
dium induces rightward shift of the systolic
pressure-volume relationship. Krams R, Janssen
M, Van der Lee C, Van Meegen J, De Jong JW,
Slager CJ, Verdouw PD. "Ischemia-induced
systolic dysfunction has been ascribed to changes
in cellular excitation-contraction coupling and
diastolic dysfunction because of disruption of the
extracellular collagen matrix."' "We hypothe-
size that the rightward shift of the systolic
pressure-volume’ relationship was compatible
with a decrease of elastic-restoring forces,
probably induced by alterations in the extra-
cellular collagen matrix and/or the cytoskele-
ton, and thereby our data imply that left
ventricular dysfunction of postischemic
myocardium does not result solely from distur-
bances in excitation-contraction coupling.”

Biochim Biophys Acta 1994 Jul
6;1200(2):93-9. Possible role of cell redox state
on collagen metabolism in carbon

tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis as evidenced by
adenosine administration to rats. Hernandez-
Munoz R, Diaz-Munoz M, Chagoya de Sanchez
Vv

Nitric Oxide 2000 Aug; 4(4):399-411.
Suppression of bleomycin-induced nitric oxide
production in mice by taurine and _ niacin.
Gurujeyalakshmi G, Wang Y, Giri SN. "The
ability of taurine and niacin to suppress the
BL-induced increased production of NO secon-
dary to decreases in iNOS mRNA and protein
appears to be one of the mechanisms for their
anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects."

Clin Chim Acta 1983 Oct 14;133(3):311-6.
Cystic fibrosis-like changes in saliva of healthy
persons subjected to anaerobic exercise. Bardon
A, Ceder O, Kollberg H. The biochemical compo-
sition of saliva secreted by healthy persons and by
heterozygotes and homozygotes of cystic fibrosis
at rest and by healthy persons subjected to aerobic
or anaerobic effort were compared. In the saliva
from cystic fibrosis homozygotes at rest

substantial increases of the activity of ribonucle-
ase (p less than 0.001) and of the concentrations of
protein (p less than 0.001), lactate (p less than
0.001), sodium (p less than 0.001), potassium (p
less than 0.01) and calcium (p less than 0.05) were
found in comparison with saliva from healthy
persons at rest. In the saliva from cystic fibrosis
heterozygotes at rest similar but less pronounced
changes were seen. After anaerobic exercise
these biochemical parameters were increased
in the saliva of healthy persons and mimicked
the values of cystic fibrosis saliva. However,
after aerobic effort no changes other than a
slightly increased ribonuclease activity were seen
in the saliva of healthy persons. This indicates that
Sulivary glauds of cysiic fibyesis patienis3, ai
rest, are in the same state of lactate acidosis
and energy depletion as these glands are in
healthy persons after anaerobic work.

Hepatology 1991 Mar;13(3):551-6. Regula-
tion of collagen production in freshly isolated
cell populations from normal and cirrhotic rat
liver: effect of lactate. Cerbon-Ambriz J, Cerbon-
Solorzano J, Rojkind M.

Gastroenterology 1984 Oct;87(4):777-87.
Acetaldehyde and lactate stimulate collagen
synthesis of cultured baboon liver myofibro-
blasts. Savolainen ER, Leo MA, Timp! R, Lieber
CS.

J Immunol 1990 Sep 15;145(6):1838-44. Mast
cells and pulmonary fibrosis. Identification of a
histamine releasing factor in bronchoalveolar
Javage fluid. Broide DH, Smith CM, Wasserman
SI.

J Clin Oncol 1999 Oct;17(10):3283-90. Strik-
ing regression of chronic radiotherapy damage
in a clinical trial of combined pentoxifylline
and tocopherol. Delanian S, Balla-Mekias S,
Lefaix JL.

Microcirculation 2000 Aug;7(4):269-80.
Effects of myocardial edema on the develop-
ment of myocardial interstitial fibrosis. Davis
KL, Laine GA, Geissler HJ, Mehlhorln U,
Brennan M, Allen SJ.

Chest 1997 Nov 5;112(5):1184-8. Upregula-
tion of collagen messenger RNA expression
occurs immediately after lung damage. Dehein-
zelin D, Jatene FB, Saldiva PH, Brentani RR.

Hepatology 1984 Mar-Apr;4(2):295-9,
Frequency of hyperprolinemia in alcoholic
liver cirrhosis: relationship to blood lactate.
Shaw S, Worner TM, Lieber CS.

J Orthop Res 1998 Jan;16(1):104-11. Genera-
tion of nitric oxide by Japine meniscal cells and
its effect on matrix metabolism: stimulation of
collagen production by arginine. Cao M,
Stefanovic-Racic M, Georgescu HI, Miller LA,
Evans CH,

Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 1995
Jun;12(6):684-90. Partially degraded
fibrin(ogen) stimulates fibroblast proliferation
in vitro. Gray AJ, Bishop JE, Reeves JT, Mecham
RP, Laurent GJ

Gaswoenterdlogy 1995 Apr;108(4):1124-35
Accumulation and cellular localization of
fibrinogen/fibrin during short-term and long-
term rat liver injury. Neubauer K, Knittel T,
Armbrust T, Ramadori G

J Diabetes Complications 1997 Nov-Dec;
11(6):323-7. Ethnicity and prevalence of
scleroderma-like syndrome: a study of Arab
and Jewish Israeli insulin-dependent diabetic
children. Brik R, Berant M, Sprecher E, Yarnit-
sky D, Ganaym Z, Vardi P Department of Pediat-
rics, Rambam Medical Center, Haifa, Israel.
Scleroderma-like syndrome (SLS) may repre-
sent the earliest apparent diabetes complica-
tion in insulin-dependent diabetic (IDDM)
patients.

Int J Biochem Cell Biol 1999
Mar-Apr;31(3-4):499-508. Susceptibility of
cultured rat hepatocytes to oxidative stress by
peroxides and iron. The extracellular matrix
affects the toxicity of tert-butyl hydroperoxide.
Hagen K, Zhu C, Melefors O, Hultcrantz R. "The
aim of this study was to set up an in vitro model
for studying the importance of an altered extra-
cellular matrix composition and its importance for
the resistance to oxidative stress, in hepatocytes
from normal and iron loaded rats."

Izv Akad Nauk Ser Biol 1995
May-Jun;(3):361-6. [Disruption of the perme-
ability of blood-tissue barriers in mechanisms
of primary reaction to irradiation]. [Article in
Russian] Arlashchenko NI.

