Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission.

Copyright 2000 Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

March 2001

Mary Shomon interview

Mary Shomon: Why do women with treated
hypothyroidism frequently still have inappropri-
ately high levels of cholesterol and high triglyc-
erides, and what can they do to help lower these
levels?

RP: Often it's because they were given

thyroxine, instead of the active thyroid hormone,
but hypertriglyceridemia can be caused by a
that

variety of things

interact
mt aa Estrogen tr : ¢

with

and herbs, can ivrieaite or sientins sigs er 46

— too — eee oe

Noy. 6, 2000, email interview with

Mary Shomon for her website:

www.thyroid.about. convlibraryAweekly/aal 10800c.htm
References weren’t included in the

interview. Wea sce

thyroid gland, which normally produces s¢ some T3,
will decrease its production in the presence of
increased thyroxine. Therefore, thyroxine often

acts as a "thyroid anti-hormone," especially in
women. When thyroxine was tested in healthy
young male medical students, it seemed to
function "just like the thyroid hormone," but in
people who are seriously hypothyroid, it can
suppress their oxidative metabolism even more.
It's a very common, but very serious, mistake to
call thyroxine "the thyroid hormone."

4

t

, since their
steroid-forming tissues won't be able to respond
properly to thyroid without adequate cholesterol.

MS: You feel that progesterone can have anti-
stress effects, without harming the adrenal glands.
Is progesterone therapy something you feel is
useful to many or most hypothyroid patients?
How can a patient know if she needs
progesterone? Do you recommend blood tests?
And if so, at what point in a woman’s cycle?

in association with a hypothyroid i i

leading to various harmful

't

have the harmful effects. In hypothyroidism, there
is a tendency to have too much estrogen and corti- —

ei
The blood tests can be useful to demonstrate
to physicians what the problem is, but I don't
think they are necessary. There is evidence that
having

50 or 100 times as much progesterone as
estrogen is desirable, but I don't advocate

"progesterone replacement therapy" in the way it's
often understood. Progesterone can instantly
activate the thyroid and the ovaries, so it shouldn't
be necessary to keep using it month after month. If
progesterone is used consistently, it can postpone
menopause for many years.

Cholesterol is converted to pregnenolone and
progesterone by the ovaries, the adrenals, and the
brain, if there is enough thyroid hormone and
vitamin A, and if there are no interfering factors,
such as too much carotene or unsaturated fatty
acids.

Progesterone deficiency is an indicator that
something is wrong, and using a supplement of
progesterone without investigating the nature of
the problem isn't a good approach. The normal
time to use a progesterone supplement is during
the "latter half” of the cycle, the two weeks from
ovulation until menstruation. If it is being used to
treat epilepsy, cancer, emphysema, multiple
sclerosis, migraine or arthritis, or something else
so serious that menstrual regularity isn't a concern,
then it can be used at any time.

MS:: What supplements do you feel are essen-
tial for most people with hypothyroidism?

RP: Because the quality of commercial nutri-
tional supplements is dangerously low, the only
supplement I generally advocate is vitamin E, and
that should be used sparingly. Occasionally, I will
suggest limited use of other supplements, but it is
far safer in general to use real foods, and to
exclude foods which are poor in nutrients. Magne-
sium is typically deficient in hypothyroidism, and
the safest way to get it is by using orange juice
and meats, and by using epsom salts baths;
magnesium carbonate can be helpful, if the person
doesn't experience side effects such as headaches
or hemorrhoids.

MS: Do you feel that there are any special
considerations, issues, or treatments for men with
hypothyroidism?

RP: Thyroid supplements can be useful for
prostate hypertrophy and some cases of impotence
and infertility. Occasionally, a man who can't put

on a normal amount of weight finds that a thyroid
supplement allows normal weight gain. Leg
cramps, insomnia and depression are often the
result of hypothyroidism. Heart failure, gyneco-
mastia, liver disease, baldness and dozens of other
problems can result from hypothyroidism.

MS: Many people describe how they are clini-
cally hypothyroid, with elevated TSH levels, but
have extremely high pulse rates. Do you have any
thoughts as to what might be going on in that
situation?

RP: In hypothyroidism, thyrotropin-release
hormone (TRH) is usually increased, increasing
release of TSH. TRH itself can cause tachycardia,
"palpitations," high blood pressure, stasis of the
intestine, increase of pressure in the eye, and
hyperventilation with alkalosis. It can increase the
release of norepinephrine, but in itself it acts very
much like adrenalin. TRH stimulates prolactin
release, and this can interfere with progesterone
synthesis, which in itself affects heart function.

I consider even the lowest TSH within the
"normal range" to be consistent with hypothyroid-
ism; in good health, very little TSH is needed.

' When the thyroid function is low, the body often

compensates by over-producing adrenalin. The
daily production of adrenalin is sometimes 30 or
40 times higher than normal in hypothyroidism.
The adrenalin tends to sustain blood sugar in spite
of the metabolic inefficiency of hypothyroidism,
and it can help to maintain core body temperature
by causing vasoconstriction in the skin, but it also
disturbs the sleep and accelerates the heart.
During the night, cycles of rising adrenalin can
cause nightmares, wakefulness, worry, and a
pounding heart. Occasionally, a person who has
chronically had a heart rate of 150 beats per
minute or higher, will have a much lower heart
rate after using a thyroid supplement for a few
days. If your temperature or heart rate is lower
after breakfast than before, it's likely that they
were raised as a result of the nocturnal increase of
adrenalin and cortisol caused by hypothyroidism.

M.S.: You have written that for some people,
there is a problem converting T4 to T3, but that

diet can help. You recommend a piece of fruit or
juice or milk between meals, plus adequate
protein, can help the liver produce the hormone.
Can you explain a bit more about this idea and
how it works?

M.S.: You have recommended if supplemental
T3 1s used, a thyroid patients “nibble on a 10-15
mg Cytomel tablet throughout the day.” Can you
explain why? Would compounded time-released
T3 as available in some compounding pharmacies
do the same?

R.P.: Most hypothyroid people can success-
fully use a supplement that contains four parts of
thyroxine for each part of T3, but some people
need a larger proportion of T3 for best
functioning. The body normally produces several
micrograms of T3 every hour, but if a large
amount of supplementary thyroid is taken in a
short time, the liver quickly inactivates some Of
the excess T3. Taking a ‘ per hou

n of the h rmone I have Ply rarely talked to
anyone who had good results with the so-called
time-release T3, and I have seen analyses of some
samples in which there was little or no T3 present.
It is hard to compound T3 properly, and the condi-
tions of each person's digestive system can deter-
mine whether the T3 is released all at once, or not
at all. I don't think there is a valid scientific basis
for calling anything "time-release T3."

I have been told that the company which now
owns the Armour name and manufactures
"Armour thyroid USP" has added a polymer to the
formula, and | think this would account for the
stories I have heard about its apparent inactivity.
Some people have found that the tablets passed
through their intestine undigested, so I think it's
advisable to crush or powder the tablets.

M.S.: You feel that excessive aerobic exercise
can be a cause of hypothyroidism. Can you
explain this further? How much is too much?

R.P.: I'm not sure who introduced the term
"aerobic" to describe the state of anaerobic
metabolism that develops during _ stressful

exercise, but it has had many harmful repercus-
sions. In experiments, T3 production is stopped
very quickly by even "sub-aerobic" exercise,
probably because of the combination of a decrease
of blood glucose and an increase in free fatty
acids. In a healthy person, rest will tend to restore
the normal level of T3, but there is evidence that
even very good athletes remain tn a hypothyroid
state even at rest. A chronic increase of lactic acid

and cortisol indicates that ae iS pated

are especially susceptible to the
harmful effects of “aerobic" exercise. The good

effect some people feel from exercise is probably

the result of raising the body a a warm

ML.S.: You feel that chronic protein deficiency
is a common cause of hypothyroidism. How much
protein should people get (as much as 70-100
grams a day?) and what types of protein, in order
to prevent hypothyroidism?

R.P.: The World Health Organization
standard was revised upward by researchers at
MIT, and recently the MIT standard has been
revised upward again by military researchers; this

is described in a publication of the National
Academy of Sciences (National Academy Press,
The Role of Protein and Amino Acids in Sustain-
ing and Enhancing Performance, 1999). When
too little protein, or the wrong kind of protein, is
eaten, there is a stress reaction, with thyroid
suppression. Many of the people who don't
respond to a thyroid supplement are simply not
eating enough good protein. I have talked to.many
supposedly well educated people who are getting
only 15 or 20 grams of protein per day. To survive

that amount, their metabolic ‘rate ‘becomes
xtremely low. The quality of most vegetable
protein (especial ly beans and nuts) is so low that it
hardly functions as protein.

Muscle meats (including the muscles of
poultry and fish) contain large amounts of the
amino acids that suppress the thyroid, and
shouldn't be the only source of protein.

M.S.: You talk about darkness and shorter
days of winter as a stress. It’s known that more
thyroid hormone is needed by some patients
during colder weather. Are there other things you
recommend patients do to “winterproof’ their
metabolism?

is using , a Rare! i it's common to need
four times as much in December as in July.

M.S.: You have reported that pregnenolone

can be helpful for Graves’ patients with

exophthalmus. Can you explain further?

R.P.: Graves’ disease and exophthalmos can
occur with hypothyroidism or euthyroidism, as

well as with hyperthyroidism. Pregnenolone

n the last several
years, all of the people I] have seen who had been
diagnosed as "hyperthyroid" have actually been
hypothyroid, and benefitted from increasing their
thyroid function; some of these people had also
been told that they had Graves' disease.

M.S.: You are a proponent of coconut oil for
thyroid patients. Can you explain why?

R.P.: An important function of coconut oil is —
that it supports mitochondrial respiration, increas-

the unsaturated fatty acids.
y
levels, coconut oil can promote thyroid function

M.S.: Do you have any thoughts for thyroid
patients who are trying to do everything right, and
yet still can’t lose any weight?

R.P.: Coconut oil added to the diet can
increase the metabolic rate. Small frequent
feedings, each combining some carbohydrate and
some protein, such as fruit and cheese, often help
to keep the metabolic rate higher. Eating raw
carrots can prevent the absorption of estrogen
from the intestine, allowing the liver to more
effectively regulate metabolism. If a person
doesn't lose excess weight on a moderately low
calorie diet with adequate protein, it's clear that
the metabolic rate is low. The number of calories
burned is a good indicator of the metabolic rate.
The amount of water lost by evaporation is
another rough indicator: For each liter of water
evaporated, about 1000 calories are burned.

M.S.: You have talked about internal malnutn-
tion as a problem for many thyroid patients, due to
insufficient digestive juices and poor intestinal

S

movements. Are there ways patients who are
treated for hypothyroidism can help alleviate this
problem.

Salt craving is common in hypothyroidism,

it helps to minimize the loss
pa in tum allows cells to

respond better to the thyroid hormone. This is

probably \
lin production, «
. The lowered

adrenalin is also likely to improve intestinal
motility.

M.S.: You’ve mentioned eggs, milk and

gelatin as good for the thyroid. Can you explain a
bit more about this?

hypothyroidism. In poor countries, people have
generally eaten all parts of the animal, rather than
just the muscles--feet, heads, skin, etc. About half
of the protein in an animal is collagen (gelatin),
and collagen is deficient in tryptophan and
cysteine. This means that, in the whole animal, the
amino acid balance is similar to the adult's
requirements. Research in the amino acid require-
ments of adults has been very inadequate, since it
has been largely directed toward finding methods
to produce farm animals with a minimum of
expense for feed. The meat industry isn't inter-
ested in finding a diet for keeping chickens, pigs,
and cattle healthy into old age. As a result, adult
rats have provided most of our direct information

about the protein requirements of adults, and since
rats keep growing for most of their life, their
amino acid requirements are unlikely to be the
same as ours.

M.S.: Do you think the majority of people
with hypothyroidism get too much or too little
iodine? Should people with hypothyroidism add
more iodine, like kelp, seaweeds, etc.?

R.P.: 30 years ago, it was found that people
in the US were getting about ten times more
iodine than they needed. In the mountains of
Mexico and in the Andes, and in a few other
remote places, iodine deficiency still exists. Kelp
and other sources of

, So they definitely shouldn't be used to
treat hypothyroidism.

M.S.: What are your thoughts for Graves’
disease/hyperthyroidism patients? Should they
move ahead quickly to get radioactive iodine
treatment, or are there natural things they might
be able to try to temporarily — or even perma-
nently — get a remission?

RP: Occasionally, a person with a goiter will
temporarily become hyperthyroid as the gland
releases its colloid stores in a corrective process.
Some people enjoy the period of moderate hyper-
thyroidism, but if they find it uncomfortable or
inconvenient, they can usually control it just by
eating plenty of liver, and maybe some cole slaw
or raw cabbage juice. Propranolol will slow a
rapid heart. The effects of a thyroid inhibitor,
PTU, propylthiouracil, have been compared to
those of thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine.
The results of- the chemical treatment are better
for the patient, but not nearly so profitable for the
physician.

Besides a few people who were experiencing
the unloading of a goiter, and one man from the
mountains of Mexico who became hypermeta-
bolic when he moved to Japan (probably from the
sudden increase of iodine in his diet, and maybe
from a smaller amount of meat in his diet), all of
the people I have seen in recent decades who were
called "hyperthyroid" were not. None of the

people I have talked to after they had radioiodine
treatment were properly studied to determine the
nature of their condition. Radioiodine is a foolish
medical toy, as far as I can see, and is never a
proper treatment.

REFERENCES

Endocrino! Jpn 1977 Jun;24(3):271-6 Effect of thyro-
tropin releasing hormone on heart rate and visual
evoked potentials in rats. Tonoue. The effect of injection
of 0.3 microgram of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH)
into the third ventricle on heart rate and photically evoked
potentials in the midbrain reticular formation in urethane-
anesthetized rats was studied. TRH increased the heart rate
and amplitude of the visual evoked potentials within a few
minutes following injection. The intraventricular injections
of LHRH, consituent amino acids of TRH and intraperito-
neal TSH did not exert any effect. This indicates that TRH is
effective in the central nerveous system in inducing tachy-
cardia in the rat.

Eur Heart J 1987 May;8 Suppl B:147-51 Injection of
thyrotropin releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus
increases blood pressure. Paakkari I, Siren AL, Nurminen
ML, Svartstrom-Fraser M. Thyrotropin releasing hormone
(TRH), 10 pmol kg-I injected in the region of locus
coeruleus, caused a rapid (within 1 min) rise of mean arterial
pressure in the urethane-anaesthetized rat. No clear-cut
effects in heart rate or ventilation were observed. When
TRH was injected into the lateral ventricle, a dose more
than 10-fold higher was required to achieve a compara-
ble rise in arterial pressure. It is concluded that TRH
may have a physiological role in central cardiovascular
regulation.

Horm Metab Res 1987 Apr;19(4):164-7. Cardiovascu-
lar, catecholamine and psychological responses to TRH
in four types of affective disorder patients. Kennedy B,
Strassman RJ, Ziegler MG, Janowsky DS, Risch SC, Huey
LY, Gillin JC When 500 micrograms of TRH is given intra-
venously, an increase in TSH, blood pressure, plasma
catecholamines and positive emotions follows. Four groups
of patients with major, minor or bipolar depression or
schizoaffective disorder increased their TSH levels by
similar amounts after TRH. The neurohormone also signifi-
cantly increased diastolic blood pressure by 5.5 +/- 1.6 mm
Hg, and decreased heart rate by 7.6 +/- 1.3 beats/min. There
was a weak trend for bipolar depressives to have less cardio-
vascular response to TRH than the other groups. Plasma
norepinephrine (NE) was higher after TRH than after
placebo. The NE response differed between patient
groups (P = .0023) because of a smaller response by major
depressives, TRH decreased anger, tension and depression,
and increased friendliness. Positive emotional responses
were significantly greater in the bipolar depressives than in
other groups. Forty-one other studies have found a subnor-
mal TSH response does not distinguish between subtypes of
the affective disorders, but cardiovascular, catecholamine
and mood responses may do so.

Acta Physiol Scand 1983 Mar;117(3):427-37. Effects
of TRH and TRH analogues on the central regulation of
breathing in the rat. Hedner J, Hedner T, Wessberg P,
Lundberg D, Jonason J Respiratory activity was studied in
rats during light halothane anesthesia. Thyrotropin releasing
hormone (TRH) and two TRH analogues: the desamidated
form (TRH-OH) and gamma- butyrolactone- gamma-
carbonyl-L-histidyl-L-prolinamide citrate (DN 1417) were
administered intracerebroventricularly. TRH 0.5-5 micro-
grams induced a marked tachypnoea with a rapid onset and
a duration of at least 20 min. DN 1417, a potent analogue of
TRH with a very low TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone)
releasing activity was more effective in stimulating respira-
tory frequency, while TRH-OH, regarded to have neither
TSH releasing nor extra hypothalamic effects, at equimolar
doses was unable to induce any changes in the respiratory
pattem. When TRH was given into the fourth ventricle the
dose response curve was slightly shifted to the left. In
experiments employing the occluded breath technique, PO. 1
was increased in the same magnitude as the mean inspiratory
flow (VT/T1). The results also indicated an increase in the
gain of the inflation reflex Joop whereas the central bulbo-
pontine setting for T] and TTOT were not significantly
changed. Local injection of TRH into the nucleus tractus
solitarii induced a stimulation of respiratory frequency
which was slower in onset compared to the response seen
after injection into the lateral or fourth ventricles. Concomi-
tantly to the respiratory changes, ic.v. TRH injection
induced a hypocarbia and an alkalosis. No changes in
blood pressure or heart rate were seen. The respiratory
stimulant effect of TRH could be potentiated by pretreat-
ment with naloxone, methylatropine or a low dose of
GABA. Haloperidol or propranolol did not significantly
change the respiratory effects of TRH, while reserpine
pretreatment seemed to blunt some of the ventilatory effects
of TRH. It seems likely that TRH has few direct effects on
brain stem neurones involved in the central regulation of
respiration, but the main effects seem to be elicited in areas
rostral to the brain stem. The respiratory stimulating effect
of TRH is unrelated to TSH. Furthermore, other neurotrans-
mitter systems might also be involved in modulation of the
respiratory stimulation evoked by TRH.

Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 1989 Oct; 30(10): 2200-8.
Thyrotropin releasing hormone increases intraocular
pressure. Mechanism of action. Liu JH, Dacus AC, Bartels
SP. Eye Research Institute of REtina Foundation, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. Intravenous injec-
tions of 1-100 micrograms thyrotropin releasing hormone
(TRH) in rabbits elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). The
2-5 mm Hg increase of IOP lasted for less than 2 hr. No
change of pupil size was observed. This IOP elevation was
not due to a direct effect of TRH on ocular tissues since
intravitreal] injections of 0.1 and | micrograms TRH did not
change IOP. Concentrations of thyroid stimulating hormone
(TSH), triiodothyronine (T-3), epinephrine (Epi) and
norepinephrine (NE) in the plasma were elevated at 30 min
after an i.v. injection of 10 micrograms TRH. Plasma levels
of prolactin and thyroxine were not changed. Bolus i.v.

injections of 0.1-1 micrograms TSH and 0.1-1 micrograms
T-3, which would produce an equivalent increase of relevant
hormones in the circulation, did not increase IOP. However,
similar i.v. injections of 10-100 ng Epi and 100 ng NE
caused a 1.5-3 mm Hg IOP elevation for 15-30 min. Thus,
the IOP elevation following TRH administration probably is
caused by the increase of circulating endogenous catechola-
mines and not by the stimulation of the TSH-thyroid
hormone axis. Heart rate, but not blood pressure, was
increased with 10 micrograms TRH. After unilateral transec-
tion of the cervical] sympathetic trunk, the IOP elevation in
the decentralized eye was larger than that in the intact eye.
Topical treatment of 0.1% or 1% timolol in the decentralized
eye inhibited the IOP elevations in both eyes, but 0.1%
prazosin was not effective. Topical 1% atropine and
atropine given subcutaneously at 0.6 mg/kg decreased
the bilateral IOP elevations. These observations indicate
that beta-adrenergic and muscarinic mechanisms, not an
alpha-|-adrenergic mechanism, are involved.

Peptides 1990 Sep-Oct;11(5):939-44. Selective
cardiorespiratory activity of an iodinated analog of
thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). Paakkari IJ, Jarvi-
nen A, Vonhof S, Mannisto PT, Cohen LA, Labroo VM,
Feuerstein G. The biological activity of thyrotropin-
releasing hormone (TRH) and its analogs 4(5)-J-Im-TRH
and 2,4(5)-I2-Im-TRH was assessed by means of their
effects on: 1) the mean arterial pressure (MAP), 2) heart rate
(HR), 3) ventilation minute volume (MV), 4) contractility of
the rat duodenum, and 5) concentrations of thyrotropin
(TSH) or prolactin (PRL) in serum. Also their binding to
TRH-receptors in brain homogenates was studied. In
urethane-anesthetized rats TRH ICV increased MAP, HR
and MV. 4(5)-I-Iim-TRH was equally as active as TRH on
HR and MV but a significant efevation in MAP was
observed only at a dose 100-fold to that of TRH. However,
the maximal responses of 4(5)-I-Im-TRH and TRH did not
differ. In conscious rats, TRH 1A elevated MAP and HR
but 4(5)-I-Im-TRH was active on MAP only. 2,4(5)-I2-Im-
TRH was devoid of cardiorespiratory activity. TRH dose-
dependently inhibited the contractions of the rat duode-
num while the iodinated analogs lacked such an activity. To
induce a significant release of TSH several hundred times
more of 4(5)-I-Im-TRH and over 1000 times more of
2,4(5)-I2-Im-TRH were needed as compared to TRH. The
iodoanalogs elevated PRL levels only at doses 2000-fold
higher than thase of TRH. The iodoanalogs displaced
[3H|[3-Me-His2]TRH [( 3H]MeTRH) from its binding sites
at concentrations about 1000 times higher than those of
TRH. Substitutions of the histidyl moiety of TRH in
4(5)-I-Im-TRH and 2,4(5)-12-Im-TRH resulted in substantial
loss of the endocrine activity. While the di-iodinated analog
was practically devoid of any biological activity the
monoijiodinated analog exerted similar cardiorespiratory
activity to that of TRH.

Arch Gen Psychiatry 1991 Feb;48(2):148-56.
Endocrine, cardiovascular, and behavioral effects of
intravenous protirelin in patients with panic disorder.
Stein MB, Uhde TW Section on Anxiety and Affective

Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda,
Md 20892. The effects of protirelin administration on the
anterior pituitary release of thyrotropin and prolactin were
examined in 26 patients with panic disorder and 22 healthy
volunteers. There were no differences observed in hormonal
responses to protirelin between patients and controls.
However, higher Beck Depression Inventory scores were
associated with smaller baseline-corrected maximal changes
in thyrotropin responses. Cardiovascular responses to
protirelin did not differ between a subgroup of 15 patients
with panic disorder and 15 age- and sex-matched healthy
controls. Although protirelin produced robust increases
in heart rate and blood pressure, only one patient with
panic disorder experienced a panic attack during the
infusion. The hormonal findings suggest that the presence of
depressive symptoms may have a significant impact on
various indexes of neuroendocrine responsivity and should
be taken into consideration when looking at biologic
measures in patients with panic disorder. The cardiovascular
and behavioral findings do not support the hypothesis that
all panic-producing stimuli are nonspecific and suggest that
the induction of physical stimuli may be insufficient to
produce panic attacks even in susceptible individuals.

Exp Clin Endocrinol 1992;99(3):143-6. Time-related
effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) on the
pituitary-thyroid axis and extrathyroidal targets. Nink
M, Weber P, Krause U, Beyer J [Ird. Thyrotropin-releasing
hormone (TRH) is a tripeptide and acts as a stimulator of the
pituitary-thyroid axis as well as having a great number of
well defined extrathyroidal functions. Studies in experimen-
tal animals have shown, that TRH also has a role as a neuro-
modulator within the autonomous nervous system. In this
study we analyzed the effects following peripheral admini-
stration of TRH (200 micrograms, 400 micrograms) in
patients with endocrinological disorders and in healthy
fernales and males. By means of a questionnaire, patients
were asked about possible (side-) effects; ventilatory and
cardiovascular monitcring was performed during steady
state. The pulsatile TSH-secretion pattern was analyzed and
thyroid and stress hormones were measured in the blood
prior to and following TRH i.v. Frequent symptoms afer
TRH were feeling of heat (58%), stimulation of respira-
tion (61%), palpitations (39%), micturition urge (52%)
and restlessness (32%). Apparative monitoring demon-
Strated a short stimulation of respiration and an
increase of heart rate. After 400 micrograms TRH i.v.,
blood levels of ACTH decreased slightly (p less than
0.01) but levels of T3, T4, epinephrine, norepinephrine and
cortisol remained unchanged (p greater than 0.05).
TSH-levels were low during daytime and showed a surge at
night.

Am J Cardiol 1994 Feb 15;73(5):374-8. Usefulness of
L-thyroxine to improve cardiac and exercise perform-
ance in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Moruzzi P,
Doria E, Agostoni PG, Capacchione V, Sganzerla P. “The
short-term effects of L-thyroxine (100 micrograms/day, [0
patients) and placebo (10 patients) on idiopathic dilated
cardiomyopathy were compared.” “A decrease in resting

systemic vascular resistances and an increase in cardiac
oufput (p < 0.05) were also observed. Cardiopulmonary
effort parameters improved (p < 0.05) without hemody-
namic changes at peak exercise. It is concluded that
L-thyroxine short-term administration improves cardiac
and exercise performance in patients with chronic heart
failure, without modifying the adrenergic support to the
heart and the circulatory parameters at peak exercise.”

J Steroid Biochem 1983 Jul;19(1B):433-8. Effects of
anterior pituitary hormones and their releasing
hormones on physiological and behavioral functions in
rats. Lin MT, Ho LT, Uang WN “The effects of direct
administration of TRH, TSH, LHRH, LH, ACTH, GH, FSH
and prolactin into cerebral ventricle system on metabolic,
respiratory, cardiovascular and behavioral responses were
assessed in unanesthetized rats, Intraventricular admini-
stration of TRH, TSH, LHRH or LH caused hypother-
mia, decreased metabolism and/or cutaneous vasodila-
tion at room temperature (22 degrees C).” “In addition,
intraventricular administration of TRH, LHRH or LH caused
tachycardia, hypertension and a _ reduction in the
epinephrine-induced reflex bradycardia.” “Furthermore,
following intraventricular administration of TRH, but not
TSH, LHRH, LH, FSH, GH, ACTH or prolactin three
main categories of behavior were provoked: activity of
normal type--forward locomotion stimulation, head and
body rearing; stereotype activity--increased grooming
and head swaying; and abnormal type behavior--tail
elevation and piloerection in rats.”

Indian J Physiol Pharmacol 1984 Apr-Jun;28(2):153-8
A study of pituitary-thyroid function during exercise in
man. Sawhney RC, Malhotra AS, Gupta RB, Rat RM
“Exercise induced modulations in circulatory T4, T3 and
TSH were monitored in 14 healthy euthyroid male volun-
teers undergoing exercise on a bicycle ergometer at 750
KPM for 20 minutes.” “Serum T4 exhibited a significant
decrease (P less than 0.05) from 9.6 +/- 0.49 microgram/dl
(mean +/- SE) to 8.3 +/- 0.47 microgram/d] at 20 min after
the termination of the exercise, whereas a significant
decrease (P less than 0.01) in T3 levels from 158 +/- 9 ng/dl
to 144 +/- 8.2 ng/d! was recorded at 40 min after the termi-
nation of the exercise.” “These observations suggest that
hormone secretion by the thyroid and its responsiveness
to endogenous TSH are maintained after exercise. The
decrease in circulatory T4 and T3 could be due to an
increase in degradation of the hormones or may reflect a
generalized adaptation phenomenon. The exact mecha-
nism and significance of these alterations remains to be
elucidated.”

Arch Intern Med 1984 Jun;144(6):1149-52 Diagnostic
dosages of protirelin (TRH) elevate BP by noncatechola-
mine mechanisms. Zaloga GP, Chernow B, Zajtchuk R,
Chin R, Rainey TG, Lake CR “While performing thyroid
function tests, we noticed that protirelin (TRH) raised BP,
and, therefore, we investigated the effect of diagnostic
dosages of protirelin (500 micrograms) on plasma catechola-
mine levels and cardiovascular function in eight patients one
day before, one day after, and four weeks following heart

surgery. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR),
plasma norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (EPD,
dopamine (DA), thyroid hormone (triiodothyronine
[T3], thyroxine), and thyrotropin (TSH) levels were
measured before and after the intravenous injection of
protirelin. Protirelin increased MAP transiently from 88
+/- 2 to 103 +/- 3 mm Hg (before surgery), 86 +/- 4 to 102
+/- 4 mm Hg (one day after surgery), and 86 +/- 4 to 104
+/- 5 mm Hg (four weeks after surgery).” “We conclude
the following: (1) diagnostic dosages of protirelin
transiently elevate MAP and SVR by a noncatechola-
mine mechanism, (2) clinicians who perform protirelin
tests should be aware of protirelin's transient pressor
effects.”

Endocrinologie 1982 Jul-Sep;20(3):165-76. Endocrine
circadian time structure in the aged. Nicolau GY, Haus E,
Lakatua DJ, Bogdan C, Petrescu E, Sackett-Lundeen L,
Berg HG, Ioanitiu D, Popescu M, Chioran C “Thirtzen
circadian rhythms in plasma hormone levels (ACTH,
aldosterone, cortisol, C-peptide, insulin, DHEA-S, estradiol,
LH, prolactin, 17-OH progesterone, testosterone, T4 and
TSH) were studied in Apri] 1981 in 25 males and 25
females 57 to 91 years of age, institutionalized at the
Berceni Hospital for the aged.” “In comparison with previ-
ous data from the Endocrine Rhythms Laboratory ("C. If.
Parhon" Institute) and series of younger subjects studied in
Minnesota (St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center) as well as in
comparison with data published from other centers, the aged
seem to experience an earlier arousal of their endocrine
system which may be related to certain disturbances of
old age e.g. of sleep.”

Clin Endocrinol (Oxf) 1988 Jul;29(1):63-75. A double-
blind cross-over 12-month study of L-thyroxine treat-
ment of women with ‘subclinical’ hypothyroidism.
Nystrom E, Caidahl K, Fager G, Wikkelso C, Lundberg PA,
Lindstedt G. “Twenty women, who had been randomly
selected from women with subclinical hypothyroidism
identified in a population study were treated with
L-thyroxine and placebo in a double-blind cross-over design
during 2 x 6 months.” “Heart rate-corrected preejection
period and symptom score decreased (P less than 0.05).
Tour women starting with L-thyroxine showed a marked
and prolonged (4-6 months) rise in thyrotrophin concen-
tration during the subsequent placebo period, but
remained clinically euthyroid.” “Subclinical hypothy-
roidism is common among middle-aged and old women,
and our findings indicate that approximately one woman
in four with this 'subclinical’ condition will benefit from
L-thyroxine treatment.”

RNRAKKKH KEK

