Sr

Ray Peat's Newsletter

“Senescence has no functlon—it is the subversion of function.” Alex Comfort

Copyright 2011 Raymond Peat P.O, Box

Not for republication with

Osteoporosis, aging, tissue
renewal, and product science

The incidence of osteoporosis, like obesity, has
been increasing in recent decades. The number of
hip fractures in many countries has doubled in the
last 30 or 40 years (Bergstrom, et al., 2009), An
exception to that trend was Australia in the period
between 2001 and 2006, where the annual
incidence of hip fractures in women over 60 years
old decreased by 28.3%. During those years, the
number of prescriptions for “hormone replacement
therapy" decreased by 54.6%, and the number of
prescriptions for bisphosphonate increased by
245%. The publication of the Women's Health
Initiative results in 2002 (showing that the Prem-
Pro treatment caused breast cancer, heart attacks,
and dementia), led to a great decrease in the use of
estrogen treatments everywhere.

After the FDA approved estrogen's use in 1972
for the prevention of osteoporosis the number of

women using it increased greatly, and by 1994,
44% of women in the US had used it, Afler the
WHI results were published, the number of
prescriptions for "HRT" fell by more than half, and
following that decrease in estrogen sales, the
incidence of breast cancer decreased by 9% in
women between the ages of 50 and 54,

With the incidence of hip fractures increasing
while the percentage of women using estrogen was
increasing, it seems likely that there is something
wrong with the theory that osteoporosis is caused
by an estrogen deficiency. That theory was derived
from the theory that menopause was the conse-
quence of ovarian failure, resulting from the failure
to ovulate and produce estrogen when the supply
of eggs was depleted. The theory was never more
than an ideological preference, but the estrogen

5764 Eugene OR 97405

Ou! written permission

September 2011

industry saw it as an opportunity to create a huge
market.

There are many studies that seem to imply that
the greater incidence of osteoporotic fractures
among women is the result of their exposure to
estrogen during their reproductive years. This
would be analogous to the understanding that it is
the cumulative exposure to estrogen that ages the
nerves in the hypothalamus that control the cyclic
release of the gonadotropic hormones, causing the
menopause.

.. the nature of science itself changed
around the middle of the last century,

becoming product and disease oriented, so
that now relatively few people are continu-
ing to study bones objectively.

Animal studies show that estrogen stunts
growth, including bone growth. The high estrogen
levels in girls’ teen years and early twenties
accounts for the fact that women's bones are
lighter than men's. In rat studies, treatment with

1957), {

One of the "estrogen receptors" appears to
actively contribute to bone loss (Windahl, et al.,
1999, 2001). Studies in dogs following the
removal of their ovaries found that there was an

"
rate in the first month, followed by a few months
of slowed bone formation, but that-by 10 months
after the surgery the bones had returned to their
normal remodeling rate, and that "at no tine was a
significant reduction in bone volume detected”
(Boyce, et al., 1990). With the removal of the
ovaries, the production of progesterone as well as
estrogen is affected, but the adrenal glands and
other tissues can produce those hormones.

Until the influence of the estrogen industry
overwhelmed it, ordinary science was studying
bone development in comprehensive ways, under-
standing its biological roles and the influences of
the environment on it. But the nature of science
itself changed around the middle of the last
century, becoming product and disease oriented,
so that now relatively few people are continuing to
study bones objectively.

The outstanding physical-chemical property of
bone is that it is a reservoir-buffer of carbon

dioxide, able to bind huge amounts of the gas into
its structure.

When carbon dioxide increases in the blood-
stream it is at first absorbed rapidly by the bones,
and if the blood level of CO2 is kept high day after
day, the rate of absorption gradually slows down,
but in experiments that have continued for several
weeks the bones were still slowly absorbing more
carbon dioxide; the absorption curve seems to be
asymptotic. When people move to or from high
altitudes, their bones appear to continue adapting
to the different gas pressures for years. A reduc-
tion of atmospheric pressure (which allows the
tissues to retain more carbon dioxide) helps to
reduce the calcium loss caused by immobility
(Litovka and Berezovs'ka, 2003; Berezovs'kyi, et
al., 2000), and promotes the healing of damaged
bone (Bouletreau, et al., 2002). Ultrasound treat-
Ment, which accelerates bone healing, stimulates
processes similar to reduced oxygen supply (Tang,
et al., 2007).

The mineral in newly formed bone is calcium
carbonate, and this is gradually changed to include
a large amount of calcium phosphate. Besides
forming part of the mineral, carbon dioxide is also

y bonded to 4 collagen mole
about 30% of the mass of bong
f the bone consists of other 7
ic molecules, including osteocalcin, and the \
nee the mass of the bone consists of mineral.

Thyroid hormone is essential for forming
carbon dioxide. In the early 1940s, experimental
rabbits were fed their standard diet, with the
addition of 1% desiccated thyroid gland, which
would be equivalent to about 150 grams of
Armour thyroid for a person. They became
extremely hypermetabolic, and couldn't eat enough
to meet their nutritional needs for growth and
tissue maintenance. When they died, all of their
tissues weighed much less than those of animals
that hadn't received the toxic dose of thyroid,
except for their bones, which were larger than
normal. Experiments with the thin skull bones of
mice have shown that the active thyroid hormone,
T3, increases the formation of bone. To increase
T3 increases the activity of the enzyme
cytochrome oxidase, which uses copper as a
co-factor. Increased thyroid activity increases the
absorption of copper from foods.

There is an inherited condition in humans.
called osteopetrosis or marble bone disease,
caused by lack of a carbonic anhydrase enzyme,
which causes them to retain a very high level of
carbon dioxide in their tissues. Using a chemical
that inhibits carbonic anhydrase, such as the
diuretic acetazolamide, a similar condition can be
produced in animals. Acetazolamide inhibits the
bone resorbing actions of parathyroid hormone,
including lactic acid formation and the release of
the lysosomal enzyme, beta-glucuronidase (Hall
and Kenny, 1987).
caused by increased carbonic acid doesn't; low
bicarbonate in the body fluids seems to remove
carbonate from the bone (Bushinsky, et al., 1993),
and also mineral phosphates (Bushinsky, et al.,
2003). The parathyroid hormone, which removes
calcium from bone, causes lactic acid to be formed
by bone cells (Nijweide, et al., 1981; Lafeber, et
et al., 1997), and sodium bicarbonate increases

protein is firml
Collagen forms
several percent ©
calcium retention by bone. Vitamin K2
(Yamaguchi, et al., 2003) blocks the removal of
calcium from bone caused by parathyroid hormone
and prostaglandm E2, by completely blocking their
stimulation of lactic acid production by bone
tissues. Aspirin, which, like vitamin K, supports
cell respiration and inhibits lactic acid formation,
also favors bone calcification. Vitamin K2 stimu-
lates the formation of two important bone
proteins, osteocalcin and osteonectin
(Bunyaratavej, et al., 2009), and reduces the activ-
ity of estrogen by oxidizing estradiol (Otsuka, et
al, 2005).

The formation of eggshell, which is mostly
calcium carbonate, is analogous to the early stage
of bone formation. In hot weather, when chickens
pant and lower their carbon dioxide, they form thin
shells. A sodium bicarbonate supplement improves
the quality of the eggshell (Balnave and
Muheereza, 1997; Makled and Charles, 1987).
Chickens that habitually lay eggs with thinner
shells have lower blood bicarbonate than those that
lay thick shelled eggs (Wideman and Buss, 1985).

One of the arguments for stopping the sale of
DDT im the US was thai it was threatening to
cause extinction of various species of bird because
it caused them to lay eggs with very weak shells.
Several other synthetic estrogenic substances,
ethynylestradiol, lindane, PCBs, cause eggshell
thinning, partly by altering carbonic anhydrase
activity (Holm, et al, 2006). Estrogen and
serotonin activate carbonic anhydrase in some
tissues, progesterone tends to mhibit it. DDE, a
metabolite of DDT, reduces bone
formation in birds (Oestricher, et al., 1971) and
bone mineral density in men (Glynn, et al., 2000).
Among its estrogenic effects, DDE imcreases
prolactin (Watson, et al., 2007); one form of DDT
inhibits progesterone synthesis and increases estro-
gen (Wojtowics, et al., 2007)
In youth, the mineralization of the collagen

toe bene ee «

the bones are more flexible. '

Collagen is a major of the

substance everywhere in a body, nok eaaee
tration increases with aging in the non-calcified
tissues. There is considerable renewal and modifi-
cation of collagen, as new molecules are formed
and old molecules broken down, but its average
structure changes with aging, becomes less soluble
and more rigid, as the result of chemical cross-
links formed between molecules. These cross-links
are involved in regulating the differentiation of
bone celis (Turecek, et al., 2008). Recently
(August 2, 2011), Deasey et al., have published
evidence showing that cross-linking is required for
bone mineralization (2011).

The outstanding physical-chemical
property of bone is that it is a reservoir-

buffer of carbon dioxide, able to bind
huge amounts of the gas into its structure.

Around 1950, Fritz Verzar began studying the
changes of collagen that occur with aging, and his
work led to the "collagen theory of aging.” He
showed that older, stiffer, less elastic tendons have
a higher "melting" or contracting temperature than
young tendons. (This effect is responsible for the
curling of a piece of meat when it is frying.)

Verzar and his colleagues investigated the
effects of hormonal treatments on the aging of rat
collagen, especially in their tail tendons. They
found that estrogen treatment increased the stiff-
ness and the melting temperature of collagenous
found to retard the aging.

Later, the cross-linking enzymes transglutami-
nase and lysyl oxidase, which are induced by
estrogen, were found to be a major factor in the
cross-linking of collagen and other molecules.

When estrogen was found to age the connec-
nae ae
aging and estrogen. Since most people had
believed that frequent pregnancies would cause a
woman to age more rapidly, a large survey of
records was done, to compare the longevity of
women with the number of pregnancies. It was
found, in the very extensive Hungarian records,
that life-span was increased in proportion to the
number of pregnancies.

Despite these very interesting results in the
1950s and 1960s, the growing influence of the
estrogen industry changed the direction of aging
research, favoring the belief that decreasing estro-
gen accelerated the deterioration of tissues in
aging, and the popularity of Denham Harman's
"free radical theory of aging" led many people to
assume that random reactions produced by lipid
peroxidation were responsible for most of the
cross-linking, and that theory was gradually
replaced by the "glycation" theory of aging, in
which sugar molecules break down and form the

cross-links, by random, non-enzymic processes.
Estrogen's role in aging was completely by-passed.
The meat industry is interested in reducing the
toughness of meat, by influencing the nature of the
collagen in muscle. Castrated animals were found
to produce meat that was tenderer than that of
intact males. When castrated animals were treated
with testosterone, the amount of collagen was
increased, making the meat tougher. But when
dihydrotestosterone, which can't be converted to
estrogen was used, the meat didn't become tough.
Treatment with estrogen produced the same
increase oof collagen as treatment with
testosterone, showing that testosterone's effect
was mainly the result of its conversion to estrogen
(Miller, et al., 1990).

In the 1960s and ‘70s the estrogen industry
was looking for ways to build on the knowledge
that in puberty estrogen is responsible for acceler-
ating the calcification of the growth plate at the
ends of the long bones, and to find a rationale for

would delay osteoporosis became the basis for a
huge new marketing campaign. Slowing bone }
metabolism became the focus. Although estrogen
was known to increase prolactin, and prolactin
was known to accelerate bone loss, nearly all
publications began to focus on substances in the
blood or urine that corresponded to the rate of
bone turnover, with the implication that increasing
bone turnover would correspond to a net loss of
bone.

This was the context in which, during the
1980s, articles about thyroxine's role in causing
osteoporosis began to appear. The thyroid
hormone supports bone renewal, and increases
indicators of bone breakdown in the blood and
urine. If estrogen's use was to be justified by
slowing bone turnover, then the effects of thyroid,
accelerating bone tumover, should be interpreted
as evidence of bone destruction.

A basic problem with many of the publications
on thyroid and bone loss was that they were
talking about an unphysiological medical practice
(prescribing the pre-hormone, thyroxine), which
frequently failed to improve thyroid function, and
could even make it worse, by lowering the amount
of T3 in the tissues.

Later, it was noticed that high TSH was
associated with the signs of lower bone turnover.
TSH rises when there is less thyroid hormone, but
(after the recombinant TSH became available for
medical use) a few publications argued that it was
the TSH itself, rather than the absence of thyroid
hormone, that was "protecting" the bones (lower-
ing the evidence of bone turnover). The doctrine
that had been developed to support estrogen
therapy was now used to oppose thyroid therapy.
Keeping the TSH high would slow bone turnover.

Working in this cultural context, genetic
engineers at Amgen identified a protein that inhib-
ited the formation of osteoclast cells, and slowed
bone metabolism. It was suggested that it was
responsible for estrogen's suppression of the

osteoclasts, and many publications appeared
showing that it was increased by estrogen. It was
named "osteoprotegerin," meaning "the bone
protecting protein." Prolactin increases osteopro-
tegerin (OPG), reducing bone resorption just as
estrogen does. Serotonin also increases OPG, and

= ames cot Gat OPG ws cieverd m& all of the

Wee Arter Evert. Verzer. and others were
Stucymg the effects of the rat's peomary (and other
Sends) om colzese W_ D. Denckis mvestigated

removal & 2 wide wanety of anmmais. including fish

gmc seolieskcs. He bad noticed that reproduction nm
vans specs (ce. stimon) wes quickly
Pieaery giend (or r i

large masses of carnage absorb oxygen and nutri-
exms slowly. so miemaily the amount of oxygen is
very lmmited. about 1/5 as much as at the surface,

agme and stress, the excess cross-linking slows the
biological renewal process m bones, but in blood

Prolactin, like estrogen, interferes with thyroi
function and oxygen consumption (Wade, “aie
'986; Strizhkov, 1991; Spatling, et al., 1982).
Many years ago, repeated lactation was consid-
€xed to cause osteoporosis and loss of teeth, and
Prolactin, which mobilizes calcium from bones for
the production of milk, was recognized as an
important factor in bone loss. Drugs that increase
prolactin were found to cause osteoporosis. In the
40 years since the drug industry began its intense
promotion of estrogen to prevent and treat osteo-
porosis, there has been very little attention to the
fact that estrogen increases prolactin, which
contributes to osteoporosis, but some people (e.g.,
Homer, 2009) have noticed that oral contracep-
tives and menopausal hormone treatments have
damaged the bones of the inner ear, causing
otosclerosis and impaired hearing, and have
suggested that prolactin mediates the effect.

A few years ago, the "serotonin reuptake
inhibitor". antidepressants, already known to
increase prolactin by increasing the effects of
serotonin, were found to be causing osteoporosis
which besides promoting the secretion of
prolactin, also stimulates the production of
parathyroid hormone and cortisol, both of which
remove calcium from bone, and contribute to the
calcification of blood vessels. The association
between weakened bones and hardened arteries is
careful to avoid investigating any mechanisms that

antidepressants.

Following the recognition that the SSRI drugs
were causing osteoporosis, it was discovered that
the serotonin produced in the intestine causes
bone loss, and that inhibiting intestinal serotonin
synthesis would stop bone loss and produce a
bone building anabolic effect (Inose, et al., 2011).
One group that had been concentrating on the
interactions of genes commented that, recognizing
the effects of intestinal serotonin, they had

rf)

suddenly become aware of "whole organism physi-
ology" (Karsenty and Gershon, 2011).

In previous newsletters I have talked about the
ability of intestinal irritation and the associated
increase of serotonin to cause headaches, asthma,
coughing, heart and blood vessel disease, muscular
dystrophy, flu-like symptoms, arthritis, inflamma-
tion of muscles and nerves, depression, and inflam-
matory brain diseases. With the new recognition
that serotonin is a basic cause of osteoporosis,
intestinal health becomes a major issue in aging
research.

The protein that inhibits intestinal formation of
serotonin is the low density lipoprotein receptor-
related protein. This seems likely to have
something to do with the fact that "low" HDI. is
associated with better bones. A low level of LDL

is associated with increased vertebral fractures
(Kaji, et al., 2010).

Cartilage synthesis and tumover are highest at
night. It is inhibited by metabolic acidosis
(increased lactic acid), but not by respiratory
acidosis (CO2) (Bushinsky, 1995). Since most
calcium is lost from bone during the night (Eastell,
et al., 1992; even in children: DeSanto, et al.,
1988) in association with the nocturnal rise of the
catabolic substances, such as free fatty acids, corti-
sol, prolactin, PTH, and adrenalin, things which
minimize the nocturnal stress can decrease the
bone turnover. These include calcium (Blumsohn,
et al., 1994) and sugar. Catabolic substances and
processes increase with aging, especially at night.
Babies grow most during the night when bone
turnover is high, and even a daytime nap acceler-
ates collagen turnover (Lutchman, et al., 1998).

Discussions about whether a certain person's
osteoporosis is "menopausal osteoporosis" or
“senile osteoporosis” have neglected the possibility
that osteoporosis doesn't begin in either
menopause or old age, but that it is the result of
life-long developmental processes that interact
with all the factors that are involved in aging. The
oa ee ee
than in young b F bone

‘ ‘bodys ability to asim copper

tissue renewal would account for the associ tion
of bone Joss with other processes such as male
baldness (Morton, et al., 2007) and Alzheimer's —
disease (Zhou, et al., 2011, Duthie, et al., 201 1).

A high ievel of respiratory energy production
that characterizes young life is needed for tissue
renewal. The accurnulation of factors that impair
mitochondrial respiration leads to increasing
production of stress factors, that are needed for
survival when the organism isn't able to simply
produce energetic new tissue as needed. Continu-
ally resorting to these substances progressively
reshapes the organism, but the investment in short-
term survival, without eliminating the problematic
factors, tends to exacerbate the basic energy
problem. This seems to be the reason that
Denckla's animals, deprived of their pituitary
glands, but provided with thyroid hormone, lived
80 long: they weren't able to mobilize the multiple
defenses that reduce the mitochondria's respiratory
energy production.

Several things that the geneticists would never
be able to fit into their schemes of "bone regula-
tory molecules" such as OPG, growth
parathyroid hormone, and estrogen, fit neatly with
the idea that bone health is maintained by respira-
tory energy and tissue renewal, under the influence
of thyroid hormone. For example, adrenaline,
which is increased by stress, aging, and hypothy-
roidism (and in many cases by estrogen), causes
bone loss. Even the bone loss caused by immobil-
ity can be blocked by an adrenaline blocker such
as propranolol. (The stress of immobility also
famously increases serotonin.) Adrenaline tends to

(Ljunhgall S, et al., 1984).

Calcium activates mitochondrial respiration,
and lowers adrenaline (Luft, et al., 1988), parathy-
roid hormone (Ohgitani, et al., 1997), and prolac-
tin (Kruse and Kracht, 1981). Copper, which is the
co-factor for the cytochrome C oxidase enzyme,
activated by thyroid, is essential for bone forma-
ee” and is consistently deficient
hormone increases the

pirin, which stimulates bone formation, has
oid-like actions, including activation of

mitochondrial respiration and energy production,

with an increase of cytochrome C oxidase (Cai, et

al., 1996), and it lowers serotonin (Shen, et al.,

2011). It also apparently protects against calcifica-

tion of the soft tissues, (Vasudev, et al., 2000),

though there has been surprisingly little investiga-
son of that. "Aspirin can promote trabecular bone
remodeling, improve three-dimensional structure
of trabecular bone and increase bone density of
cancellous in osteoporotic rats by stimulating bone
formation. It may become a new drug for the treat-
ment of osteoporosis" (Chen, et al., 2011),

A wide range of inflammatory mediators that
accelerate inflammation and bone loss also inhibit
thyroid function. People who ate more polyunsatu-
rated fat, which inhibits thyroid and oxidative
metabolism, were several times more likely to have
osteoporotic fractures (that is, essentially sponta-
neous fractures) than people who ate the least
(Martinez-Ramirez, et al., 2007).

Arachidonic acid stimulates prolactin secretion,
and prolactin acts on the thyroid gland to decrease
its activity, and on other tissues to increase their
glycolysis (with lactate production), while decreas-

ing oxidative metabolism (Spatling, et al., 1982;
Strizhkov, 1991).

Living at high altitude, which strengthens
bones, increases thyroid activity and decreases
prolactin (Richalet, et al., 2010) and parathyroid
hormone (Khan, et al., 1996). It lowers free fatty
acids, which lower bone mass by reducing bone

formation and increasing bone resorption (Chen, et
al., 2010). In menopausal women, polyunsaturated
fatty acids and even monounsaturated fats are
associated with bone loss, fruit and vegetable
consumption protects against bone loss (Macdon-
ald, et al., 2004).

While it's very interesting that the drug propra-
nol which blocks adrenaline, and drugs that block
serotonin formation, have bone protective and
restorative effects, they also have undesirable side
effects. Food choices that optimize oxidative
metabolism are the safest, as well as the most
economical, way to approach the problem of

the right choices were being made. Tests for

vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, free fatty acids,
and CO2/bicarbonate, as well as the hormones,
can be helpful, if a person isn't sure whether their
diet, sunlight exposure, and thyroid supplementa-
Hon ts adequate.

The popular medical understanding of the
organism is based on a mechanistic view of causal-
ity, m which genes have a central role, causing
things to develop and function in certain ways, and
that hormones and drugs can cause genes to
increase or decrease their activity. Genes that build
bones can be activated by one substance, and
genes that tear down bones can be inhibited by
another substance. The “osteoprotegerin” story
illustrates the problem with that kind of thinking.

Vernadsky's description of an organism as a
“whirlwind of atoms" is probably a better way to
think of how "causality" works. The moving air in
a whirlwind forms a self-intensifying system, with
the motion reducing the pressure, causing more air
to be drawn into the system. The atoms moving in
coordination aren't acting as separate things, but
as parts in a larger thing. The way in which
increased metabolism in the bones acts favorably
on the metabolism of kidneys, blood vessels,
lungs, liver, digestive system, etc., which in turn
favors the bones’ renewal, is analogous to the
tendency of a whirlwind to intensify as long as
there is a source of energy. The intensity of
oxidative metabolism is the basic factor that
permits continuing coordination of activity,
and the harmonious renewal of all the compo-
nents of the organism.

REFERENCES

Ann Nutr Aliment. 1975;29(4):305-12. [Effects of
administering diets with starch or sucrose basis on
certain parameters of calcium metabolism in the
young, growing rat]. Artus M. (Sucrose maintains
calcium homeostasis in vitamin D deficient bones.)

J Appl Physiol. 1997 Oct;83(4):1159-63, A bout
of resistance exercise increases urinary calcium
independently of osteoclastic activation in men.
Ashizawa N, Fujimura R, Tokuyama K, Suzuki M,
.

OS SUE eR nee cera ame

SSS

: Poult Sci 1997 Agr 76(2¢se45. igreving

eggshell quality at high temperscercs wah Gets
Fiziol Zk 2MOG4G(TPIeS [Tee cet of
Measured bypotiz ca the cevemomes: of sEEDeRS!
osteopenia). Borczows gp Via. Lowe FE Oke OF
Plast Recomse Sere 607; 738647. 2002
Hypexia and VEGF up-recuiece BMP-2 mRNA onc
protein expression im omicrewescaier codsthechel
: implicatiess fer fracterc Beales Bodiersce
PI, Warren SM_ Spector IA_ Peled 2M Gere EP.
Greenwald JA_ Lomgaker MT_

J Med Assoc That. 200% Seoc $2 SappiS-S1-3. The
role of vitamin K2 om ssteebiestic femctees by usec
stem cell medel Basyarzasey N. SieAscee ML
Bunvaratavey A.

J Med Assoc That 2009 SescS2 SeppiS+4.
Highly recommended dese of MK 4 fer estesperests.
Bunyaratavee N. Kitteeeeee NL Soca iT.
Tongthongthip B_ The recommended Goss of Menzire-
tenone is 45 me three tees 2 Gey- bowever te compli-
ant in daily practice is mot comvemscat. This suady shows
the twice dose per day is mferice to the recommmended

dose. This study used the level of Ga prote= @ osteo
calcin as 4 parameter for the comparison The mean of
three-time dose 2 day ts 11.27 mamogram per milliimer
while the mean of the other group is 6.07 manogram per
milliliter after the three-month treamment

Cur Opm Neparol Hypemms 1993
Jui;2(4):588-96. Effects of metabelic and respiratery
acidosis on bene. Bushinsky DA. Oni Y. Am J Physiol

J Bone Miner Res. 1993 Jan-S(1)-93-102_ Physice-

chemical effects of acidesis on bene calcium flux and

surface ion composition. Bushinsky DA. Wolbach W.
Sessler NE, Mogilevsky R, Lewi-Semi R-
Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 2005

Sep;285(3):F 532-9. Chromic acidesisimduced alters-
tion in bone bicarbonate and phosphate. Bushinsky
DA, Smith SB, Gavrilov KL, Gevrilow LF, Li J, Levi-

and the incidence of dental caries in the ;

: | Mubiler JC, Shafer WB.
gage Miner Res. 1990 Sep;5(9):947-53. Sequen- 7
tial bistomorphometric changes in cancellous bone
frem ovariohysterectomized dogs. Boyce RW,
Franks AF, Jankowsky ML, Orcutt CM, Piacquadio

White JM, Bevan JA.

a5 Cha eee Metab. 1994 Sep;79(3):730-5.
The effect of calcium supplementation on the
circadian rbythm of bone resorption. Blumsohn A,
Herringion K, Hannon RA, Shao Pp, Eyre DR, Eastell
Rr

Ann Nutr Metab. 2002;46(2):80-7. Urinary colla-
een cross-links as biochemical markers of growth:
an evaluation ef biological variables. Branca KE
Valtmena S, Golden MH, Robins S.

Arch Biochem Biophys. 1996 Jan 1;325(1):107-12.
Thyromimetic action of the peroxisome proliferators
clofibrate, perfluorooctanoic acid, and acetylsalicylic
acid secludes changes in MRNA levels for certain
genes involved im mitochondrial biogenesis. Cai Y.
Nelson BD, Li R, Luciakova K, dePierre JW. "Clofi-
brate, perfluercoctancic acid, and acetylsalicylic acid
all mcreased the mRNA levels for the mitochondrial-
encoded respiratory-chain components cytochrome c
oxidase subunit I and NADH dehydrogenase subunit
» Bed

PLoS One. 2010 Oct 28;5(10):e13704. Obesity
reduces bone density associated with activation of
PPARF aad suppression of Wht/B-catenin in
rapidly grewing male rats. Chen JR, Lazarenko OP,
Wu X, Tong Y, Blackburn ML, Shankar K, Badger
TM, Ronis MJ.

Zhonguz Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Apr
5:91(13)-925-9. [Effect of aspirin administration for
the treatment of osteoporosis in ovariectomized rat
model}. Chen ZW, Wu ZX, Sang HX, Qin GL, Wang
LS, Feng J, Wang J, Li XJ, Wang JC, Zhang D.

Arch Fr Pediatr. 1987 Dec;44(10):839-41. |Osteo-
calcin in children of short stature and its nocturnal
variations|. Colle M, Ruffie A, Ruedas E, Chebbo M.
"In younger children, Gla-P levels were significantly
lower in patients with growth retardation, when
compared with normal children."

Amino Acids. 2011 Aug 2. Characterization of

the transglutaminase gene family in zebrafish and in
transglutaminase-dependent bone

mineralization. Deasey S, Grichenko O, Du S,
Nurminskaya M.
Miner Electrolyte Metab. 1988; 14(4):235-9.

Circadian rhythm with acrophase at night for
urinary excretion of calcium and magecsiem ix
childhood: population-based data of the cimitibe
study in southern Italy. DeSsnto NG. Diorio B,
Capasso G, Capodicasa G, Giordano DR. Aulisio M.
Paduano C, Stamler J.

QJM. 2011 Jul 18. Non-psychiatrie comorbidity
associated with Alzheimer's disease. Duthic A. Chew
D, Soiza RL.

Clin Sci (Lond). 1992 Sep;83(3)-375-82. Nycte-
hemeral changes in bone turnover assessed by serum
bone Gla-protein concentration and urinary
deoxypyridinoline excretion: effects of growth a
ageing. Eastell R, Simmons PS, Colwell A, Assiri AM.
Burritt MF, Russell RG, Riggs BL.

J. Dental Res. 1964, 43(3), 331.345. Efferts of
simultaneous administration of estregen and
parathyroid extract upon teeth, periodontium, and
long bones of growing albino mice. Elzay RP. "There
appeared to be more osteoclasts per unit area im the
group that received estrogen than in the group that did
not."

Osteoporos Int. 2000;11(12):1036-42. Organe-

chlorines and bone mineral density in Swedish men

from the general population. Glynn AW, Michaelsson
K, Lind PM, Wolk A, Aune M, Atuma S, Darnerad
PO, Malimin H.

J Biot Chem. 2010 Jun 18;285{25):19561-71.
Activation of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
promotes acute hypoxic pulmonary artery contrac-
tion. Gupte RS, Rawat DK, Chettimada 8, Cioffi DL,

fiieiiaie = - :
Fiamg XR_ Ween MZ_ Devhurs: G
3 Pak Med Ace pong dum 4666) 128-31
Chances ip pheme ciectreivers during acciimatiz-
on at bee sitrede Khor DA Aslam M Khan Zi}
=p Gm Emiecceel Dibees 2910
je INGEST Olds Geasty  lipeprotein

Kay H Hise L ince Y¥_ Segimete T_ "In conciusion.
LDL-~Chol lewels were related tm wertebral ffacture risk
indcpendext of coms] Gamctiee. age. body size, bone |
TreteboOls= pirmmessrs amd the severity of the disease
m pHPT women”

Newroches: Ie. 2008 Feb-32i5)-432-7. Epub 2007_—
Ave ll. Caaesss @ repeedl leesterm oxidative
metabolism indeced by partial seretenergic deazer-
vation and chreskc wartsble stress @ rat brain.
Kamark M_ Marrow D_ Koew K_ Elier M_ Tomissaar M,
Harro J.

Gastrocateroiegy. 2011 Aug-14(2)43942. The
importance of the gastremetestimal tract im the
centre! of benc spass accrual Karseaty G_ Gershon
MD.

Bram Res. 2008 fel 24-1221-93-7_ Increased

electrical and metabelic activity im the dersal raphe |

pucieus of Parkimseniaa rats. Kaya AH, Viamines R.
Tan S, Lam LW, Magali P_ Seeimbusch HW, Visser-
Vandewalle V_ Sharp T, Tomei Y-

Wolin MS, Gerthoffer WT, McMurtry IF, Gupte SA.
Calcif Tissue Int. 1987 Apr;40(4):212-8. Role of
carbonic anhydrase in bone resorption: effect of
acetazolamide on basal and parathyroid hormone-
induced bone metabolism. Hall GE, Kenny AD.

Environ Toxicol Chem. 2006 Oct;25(10):2787-93.
Embryonic exposure to o,p'-DDT causes eggshell
thinning and altered shell gland carbonic anhydrase
expression in the domestic hen. Holm L, Blomqvist A,
Brandt 1, Brunstrom B, Ridderstrale Y, Berg C.

Hear Res. 2009 Jun;252(1-2):56-60. The effect of
sex hormones on bone metabolism of the otic
capsule—an overview. Horner KC.

J Bone Miner Res. May 23, 2011:439. Efficacy of
serotonin inhibition in mouse models of bone loss.
Inose H, Zhou B, Yadav VK, Guo XE, Karsenty G,

Am ] Physiol 1984 May-246(5 Pt 1)5453-62.
Arachidonic acid mobilizes calcium and stimulates
prolactin secretiee frem GH3 cells. Kolesnick RN,
Musacchio | Thaw C_ Gershengorn MC_

Bone. 201! Jul 28. FexOl, the transcriptional
chief of staff of encrgy metabdelism. Kousteni S.

Acts Endocrmaol (Copenh). 1981
Nov;98(3):339-44. Inhibitery effect of calcium on
serum prolactin. Krese K. Kracht U-

Endocrinology. 1986 0=—- Now, 1 19(5):2249-55.
Parathyroid hermene-tlike effects of raimbew trout
Stannius products on bene reserptiea of embryonic
mouse calvaria im vitre. Lafeder FP, Schaefer Hl.
Herrmann-Eriee MP. Wendelsar Bonga SE-

Fiziol Zh. 2003>4N2):58-4S. [Oxygen deprivation
as the initiater ef esteegenesis im hypekinesial. )
Litovka TH, Berezovs'ka OP.

:

subjects. Ljunhgall S, Akerstrom G, Benson L, Hetta J,
Rudbere C, Wide L.

Asm Nutr Aliment. 1975;29(4):313-9. [Compara-
Gre study of the effect of free and combined glucose
and fructese on the absorption and retention of
calcem). Lormet A. (Glucose and starch are poor for
caicmm absorption and retention, lactose is good,
fructose and inulin are intermediate.)

Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1988 Apr;187(4}:474-81.
Effect of high calcium diet on magnesium, catechola-
mines. and bieod pressure of stroke-prone spontane-
ously hypertensive rats. Luft FC, Ganten U, Meyer D,
Stemberg H. Gless KH, Unger T, Ganten D.

Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 1998;106(1):51-6.
Lengitudimal study of urinary hydroxy-pyridinium
cressiinks and growth in healthy infants: higher
values with breastfeeding and after daytime sleep.

Luichman EC, Hardwick TA, Biener R, Chowdhury
HA, Trout JR, Shapses SA.

Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Jan:79(1):155-65. Nutri-
tional associations with bone less during the
menopausal transition: evidence of a beneficial effect
of calcium, alcohol, and fruit and vegetable nutrients
2nd of a detrimental effect of fatty acids. Macdonald

HM, New SA, Golden MH, Campbell MK, Reid DM.

Poult Sci. 1987 Apr;66(4):705-12. Eggshell
quality as influenced by sodium bicarbonate, calcium
source, and photoperiod. Makled MN, Charles OW.

Eur J Clim Nutr. 2007 Sep;61(9):1114-20. Dietary
fat intake and the risk of osteoporotic fractures in
the elderly. Martinez-Ramirez MJ, Palma S, Martinez-
Gonzalez MA, Delgado-Martinez AD, de la Fuente C,
Delgado-Rodriguez M.

Clin Biochem. 1987 Jun;20(3):221-4. Studies on
EDTA extracts and collagenase digests from osteo-
porotic cancellous bone of the femoral head. Mbuyi-
Muamba JM, Gevers G, Dequeker J.

J Anim Sci 1990, 68:1044-1048, Intramuscular

Calcif Tissue Int. 1981;33(5)529-40.
and histological studies on variows bone cell
rations. Nijweide PJ, van der Plas A, Scherft JP.

Gastroenterology. 2007 Aug;133(2)- 608-18. Epub
2007 May 21. Serotonin mediates oxidative stress
and mitochondrial toxicity in a2 murine model of
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Nocito A. Dahm F.
Jochum W, Jang JH, Georgiev P, Bader M, Renner EL.
Clavien PA.

Nature. 1971 Feb 19:229(5286):571- DDE
reduces medullary bone formation in birds. Oestrei-
cher ML, Shuman DH, Wurster CF.

Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1997
Sep;34(9):743-7. [Effects of calcium supplementation
using AAACa or milk oa nocturnal bone resorption
in young women]. Ohgitani S, Fujii Y. Fujita T-

Life Sci. 2005 Apr 8:76(21)-2473-82. Vitamin K2
binds 17beta-hydroxystereid dehydrogenase 4 and
modulates estrogen metabolism. Otsuka M. Kato N,
Ichimura T, Abe S, Tanaka Y, Taniguchi H. Hoshida
Y, Moriyama M, Wang Y, Shao RX, Narayan D,
Muroyama R, Kanai F, Kawabe T, Isobe T, On

rhythm in type I collagen
Pausal women with and wit
BJ, Schlemmer A, Rosenquist C, B
tiansen C.

Acta Physiol Scand. 1997 Oct;161(2):161-9.
Serotonin inhibition of 1-methyixanthine metabolism
parallels its vasoconstrictor activity and inhibition of
oxygen uptake in perfused rat hindlimb. Rattigan S.
Appleby GJ, Miller KA, Steen JT, Dora KA.
Colquhoun EQ, Clark MG.

Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2010
Dec;299(6):Ri685-92. Effects of high-altitude
hypoxia on the hormonal response to hypothalamic —
factors. Richalet JP, Letournel M. Souberbielle JC.

Biochem. J. vol. 50:537-542, 1952, Studies on the
skeletal tissues. 2. The collagen content of bones —
from rabbits, oxen and humans. Rogers |
Weidmann SM, Parkinson A.

Int J Clin Pharmacol Res. 2003;23(2-3):83-92. _
Eggshell calcium in the prevention and treatment of
osteoporosis. Rovensky J, Stancikova M, Masaryk P,
Svik K, Istok R.

Br J Nutr. 2002 Mar-87(3):267-75. Positive
ee of a seiehee eggshell

8]

poult Sci. 2000 Dee;79(12):1833-8. Mineral,
_— acid, and hormonal! composition of chicken

| powder and the evaluation of its use in
puman nutrition. Schaafsma A, Pakan 1, Hofstede GJ,
\fuskiet FA, Van Der Veer E, De Vries PJ.

Ur Biokhim Zh. 1990 Nov-Dec;62(6):93-7.
[Effect of inflammatory mediators on respiration in
rat liver mitochondria]. Semenov VL.

Cell Biochem Biophys. 2011 Sep;61(1):23-31.
Aspirin attenuates pulmonary arterial hypertension
in rats by reducing plasma 5-hydroxytryptamine
levels. Shen L, Shen J, Pu J, He B.

Arch Gynecol. 1982;231(4):263-7. Influence of
prolactin on metabolism and energy production in
perfused corpus luteum bearing bovine ovaries.
Spatling L, Stahler E, Vilmar W, Ullrich J, Buchhoiz
R.

Probl Endokrinol (Mosk). 1991
Sep-0er:37(5):54-8. [Metabolism of thyroid gland
cells as affected by prolactin and emotional-physical
stress}. Strizhkov VV.

} Biol Chem 282(35):25406-15, 2007. Ultrasound
induces hypoxia-inducible facter-1 activation and
inducible nitric-oxide synthase expression through
the integrin/integrin-linked kinase/Akt/mammalian

target of rapamycin pathway in osteoblasts. Tang
CH. Lu DY, Tan TW, Fu WM, Yang RS.

Calcif Tissue Int. 2008 May;82(5):392-400. Colia-
gen crossinking influences osteoblastic differentia-
tion, Turecek C, Fratzl-Zelman N, Rumpler M,
Buchinger B, Spitzer S, Zochrer R, Durchschlag E,
Kiaushofer K, Paschalis EP, Varga F.

Artif Organs. 2000 Feb;24(2):129-36. Synergistic
effect of released aspirin/heparin for preventing
bevine pericardial calcification. Vasudey SC, Chandy
T, Sharma CP, Mohanty M, Umasankar PR.

Am J Physiol. 1986 May;250(5 Pt 2):R845-50.
Energy balance and brown adipose tissue thermo-
genesis during pregnancy in Syrian hamsters. Wade
GN, Jennings G, Trayhurn P.

Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2005
Mar; 14(3):251-64. Parathyroid hormone and leptin—
new peptides, expanding clinical prospects. Whitfield
JF. Leptin, a member of the cytokine superfamily has a
PTH-like osteogenic activity and may even partly
mediate PTH action. But leptin 0 drawbacks that

Poult Sci. 1985 May;
blood gas, pH, and bicarbonate values in laying hens

oe J Clin Invest. 1999 Oct; 104(7):895-901,
creased cortical bone mineral content but

J Bone Miner Res. 2001 Aug;16(8):1388-98.
Female estrogen receptor beta-/- mice are partially
protected against age-related trabecular bone loss.
Windahi SH, Hollberg K, Vidal O, Gustafsson JA,
Ohlsson C, Andersson G.

J Physiol Pharmacol. 2007 Dec;58(4):873-85.
DDT- and DDE-induced disruption of ovarian
steroidogenesis in prepubertal porcine ovarian folli-
cles: a possible interaction with the main steroido-
genic enzymes and estrogen receptor beta.
Wojtowicz AK, Kajta M, Gregoraszezuk EL.

Steroids. 2007 Feb;72(2):124-34. Xenoestrogens
are petent activators of rongenomic estrogenic
responses. Watson CS, Bulayeva NN, Wozniak AL,
Alyea RA.

Mol Cell Biochem. 2003 Mar;245(1-2):115-20.
Inhibitory effect of menaquinone-7 (vitamin K2) on
the bone-resorbing factors-induced bone resorption
in elderly female rat femoral tissues in vitro.
Yamaguchi M, Uchiyama S, Tsukamoto Y.

Eur ] Endocrinol. 2011 Jun;164(6):1035-41.
Response of biochemical markers of bone turnover
to oral glucose load in diseases that affect bone
metabolism, Yavropoulou MP, Tomos K, Tsekmeki-
dou X, Anastasiou O, Zebekakis P, Karamouzis M,
Gotzamani-Psarrakou A, Chassapopoulou E, Chalkia
P, Yovos JG.

Exp Clin Endocrinol, 1984 Dec;84(3):294-8.
Hypercalcaemia and calcitonin inhibit prolactin
secretion. Zofkova 1, Nedvidkova J.

J Alzheimers Dis. 2011;24(1):101-8. Association
between bone mineral density and the risk of
Alzheimer's disease. Zhou R, Deng J, Zhang M, Zhou
HD, Wang YJ.

SERERERER EEE EEE EEE EEE EE
