OBR RE De er i a ee ee ee es

gS aah eS tence yee es

Ray Peat's Newsletter

For every thing that lives is holy, life delights in life... . William Blake

Copyright 2012

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405

March 2012

Not for republication without written permission.

Cancer: Disorder and Energy

According to the World Health Organization,
cancer is now the leading cause of death in the
world. Although many "causes" are known, and
despite the "War on Cancer," nothing practical has
been done to reduce the incidence of cancer. Since
Nixon started that war, the number of people
dying annually in the US has increased faster than
the population. In ancient Rome and Egypt, cancer
was rare; cancer has been identified in only one
Egyptian mummy. In the US and several other
countries, between 2002 and 2005 there was an
unprecedented decline (7% in the US) in the
incidence of breast cancer, when the medical use
of estrogen decreased following the Women's

Health Initiative report showing that estrogen.

caused cancer, dementia, strokes and heart attacks.
However, when the public was reassured about
estrogen's safety, breast cancer incidence began
increasing again each year.

The cancer industry has been flexible and
imaginative in ways of presenting "age standard-
ized" death rates to show that they are making
progress against cancer, but there are philosophi-
cal and scientific problems in "oncology" (i.e., the
study or treatment of lumps) that should be
considered by anyone who plans to do business
with that profession.

In the 19th century (in Johannes Muller's lab),
cancers, like other animal tissues, were found to

be made up of cells, and by 1858, all diseases.

were said to be caused by disturbances in cells
(Rudolph Virchow). The atomic and molecular
theory of matter was becoming accepted at the
time that animals were found to be made up of
cells, and in both cases the "elementary particles"
seemed to have a special power to explain things.

This idea of a cellular basis of disease gradually
displaced the old idea that diseases were caused
by an imbalance of the body fluids, or humors. In
1863, Virchow recognized that inflammation,
involving leukocytes, was a common feature of
cancer, but that aspect of his work was neglected
for a long time.

Recent medical textbooks reveal no major
change in the understanding of cancer since
Virchow's time, except that "genes" (which
weren't known during Virchow's life) gradually
became the most important aspect of cells. The
typical modern textbook describes the cellular

.disturbance of cancer as the result of an

"initiating" mutation in a gene, which gives it the
potential to develop into a cancer, if it subse-
quently is exposed to a "promoter," which causes
it to multiply. In some versions of the theory, a
promoter is a second mutation that causes prolif-
eration, but in other versions the promotion is
caused by chemicals binding to receptors the way
hormones do, to stimulate proliferation. Typically,
textbooks (and reports of continuing research)
describe subsequent changes in the genes that
cause a cancer to progress from a simple excess of
cells through stages of increasing malignancy:
hyperplasia, dysplasia, carcinoma in situ, invasive
cancer. ,

One of the reasons that the medical under-
standing of cancer hasn't changed significantly
since Virchow’s time is that blaming misbehaving
cells for causing a tumor fits into the older
medical tradition, that has existed at least since
the time of Hippocrates, 400 BC, which treated
tumors either by cutting them out, or by burning
them off with caustics. Virchow's identification of
misbehaving cells provided a clear mental image
of exactly what the physician must try to destroy.
And it's probably hard to get interested in
something which could seriously limit your
professional activities if it turned out to be true.

The “cellular basis of cancer" was developed
simultaneously with the germ theory of disease,
and in the case of cancer, the deviant cells came to
be considered an alien substance, "not-self,"
analogous to infective germs. Paul Ehrlich's
search for poisons that were specific for bacterial
pathogens was quickly extended to the idea of
finding poisons that would distinguish between
cancer cells and the patient's cells.

Hippocrates’ therapeutic approach to cancer
may have survived for 2400 years, but the ideas of
his younger contemporary, Plato, about order and
causation have probably had a greater effect on
medicine. Plato believed that the world of experi-
ence is inferior and accidental, and that there are
timeless "Forms" that are the real substances. In
the atomic theory of matter, eternal, unchanging
atoms took the place of platonic forms, and there
are still molecular biologists who insist that life
‘can only be explained in terms of its constituent
atoms ("What else is there but atoms?”). This
philosophy of timeless forms was a deep commit-
ment of people like Gregor Mendel and August
Weismann, whose ideas dominated the thinking of
early 20th century geneticists. Genes were the

immutable essence of organisms, and the cells,

tissues, and organs that form the organism are
merely temporal and accidental. Weismann's
"germ plasm" or germ line contained the immortal
genes, the rest of the body lacked them, and was
essentially mortal.

For most of the 20th century, the official
doctrine was that most of the cells of the adult
body became stationary once the body reached its
adult size, and that aging consisted of the
“wearing out" of those mortal cells. When a
tumor, containing new cells, would appear and
grow, these cells were called "immortal," because
they didn't follow the rule for normal, stationary,
mortal cells. Their "immortality" is often demon-
strated by growing them endlessly in culture
dishes. Normal cells, if they can be made to
survive in a culture dish, are likely to be "trans-
formed" into cancer, demonstrated by their ability
to replicate in dishes.

This is an important ideological point, that
developed as biologists were experiencing the
extreme difficulty of getting cells to replicate, or
even to survive, in culture dishes. It has only
recently been realized that cells need more than
nutritional and hormonal signals to survive in
cultures they require certain textural, structural,
even rhythmically repeating conditions that mimic
their surroundings in the living body.

Applied to cancer, the gene theory made it
seem clear that the changes occurring in tumor
cells were irrevocable, and it has seemed self-
evident to oncologists that the only hope the
cancer patient has is for the physician to destroy
every bit of the alien substance. The recurrence of

4

a cancer that has been removed has been evidence :

to them that fragments had remained, or that the
cancer had distributed its seeds into other parts of
the body. This seems to be the necessary conclu-
sion if cancer is "caused" by defective genes.

New ideas of causality have grown up in
science beside, or within, the science culture that
is committed to platonism, reductionism, and
genetic determinism. A few biologists, including
Ana Soto and Carlos Sonnenschein, are applying
more realistic ideas of causality to ecological,
developmental, and cancer research. They have
said (Soto, et al., 2009) "The ecological develop-
mental biology (eco-devo) movement rejects the
notion that development is merely the unfolding
of a genetic program.” If events such as cancer
aren't "caused by genes," understanding the causes
of cancer and the appropriate ways to treat it will

require more holistic ways of looking at the

tumor's relation to the organism, and the organ-
ism's relation to the environment. .

‘Tt has been more than 40 years since experi-
menters demonstrated that cancer cells could be

caused to revert to normal, by changing their .

environment. Harry Rubin (2006) has observed
that cells can accumulate hundreds of mutations,
and still function normally in the organism, but
when separated and grown in a culture dish their
differences become obvious. The surrounding
cells in the body are causing the defective cells to
remain normal in appearance, function, and
growth behavior, instead of acting like cancer
cells, and can also cause "stem-like" cells to

differentiate appropriately. He says "Intimate
contact between the interacting cells is required to
induce these changes." When stem cells enter a
tumor, they don’t find that regulatory, normalizing
interaction with normal cells.

Work like Rubin's shows that even "myriad"
mutations don't necessarily cause cancer, and
another line of research shows that things which
don't cause mutations can cause cancer--the
"non-mutagenic carcinogens." The presence of
mutations is neither sufficient nor necessary for
causing cancer, but tumors do eventually accumu-
late serious damage, which causes most of the
tumor cells to die quickly. Biological stress, or
excitoxic energy deprivation, destabilizes the
genome; genetic changes develop as a result of
prolonged destructive influences, The
"non-genotoxic" carcinogens first cause inflam-
mation, excitation, and energy impairment,
leading to fibrosis, and atrophy. Cycles of cell
injury, death, and repair cause chromosomes to
deteriorate as the tissue loses its organization.

When a cell is stimulated, it responds, and the
response requires energy. The stronger and more
continuous the stimulus, the more energy the cell
needs to continue responding. In some conditions,

cells can desensitize themselves, to survive in the -

presence of continuous stimulation or irritation,
but otherwise they are killed when they don't have
enough energy to keep responding.

When a nerve is stimulated and responds, a
wave of negative electrical charge passes through
it; the electrical field accompanies a structural
change in the cytoplasm of the nerve; similar
changes occur in other types of cell. Stimulation
of a nerve with negative (cathodal) polarity causes
swelling, stimulation with the opposite polarity
causes the opposite behavior; when nerve cells are
inhibited, they shrink (Tasaki and Byme, 1980;
Tasaki, et al., 1988; Tasaki, 1999).

Swelling, an increase of the water content of
an area of tissue, is a general feature of inflamma-
tion (Weiss, et al., 1951), whether it's in a lump
caused by a bee sting, a bruise, or hives, or a
cancer. Besides the instantaneous uptake of water
described by Tasaki, there are increases that
continue because of metabolic and chemical
changes in the irritated cell. Tasaki has used gels

of synthetic polymers to demonstrate that an
electrical field can cause these changes, without
the need for the "chemical osmotic” changes that
are customarily assumed to account for the
swelling changes caused by stress (Tasaki, 2002).
When the pH of a protein gel becomes more
alkaline, it swells. The electrical activation of a
nerve causes a quick shift towards internal
alkalinity (Endres, et al., 1986), followed by a
sudden increase in lactic acid production.
Although increased lactic acid causes acidity of an
irritated or inflamed region, the conversion of
pyruvic acid to lactic acid causes the interior of
the stressed cell to become more alkaline, causing
it to swell. This is the same process that causes
the familiar swelling of tired muscles.

If blood vessels swell, the delivery of oxygen
may be restricted, and hypoxia causes more
intense swelling, because more lactic acid is:
produced, and less oxidized. This swelling
pressure resembles an increase of osmolarity. For
over 100 years, it has been customary to treat
shock with "isotonic" fluids, which are in balance
with well oxygenated tissues, with approximately
290 milliosmoles per liter, but this usually causes.
edema, swelling, and weight gain. Stressed tissues
have been found to be in balance with fluids of
much higher osmolarity, for example 372
mOsm/L (Tranum-Jensen, ct al, 1981), and
sometimes much higher.

Apart from its acidity, lactic acid acts as an
excitatory signal. A very slight increase above the
normal amount of lactic acid in the body fluids
excites sensitive cells, and the amounts reached in
inflamed tissues and in cancers will excite even
stable cells such as myelinated nerves (Uchida
and Murao, 1975).

Cancer cells show all the signs of being
intensely stimulated, and this includes a high rate
of oxygen consumption (deGroof, et al., 2009).
The stimulation increases the energy requirements
beyond the ability of the mitochondria's capacity
to meet them, leading to the production of lactate
even when a normal amount of oxygen is present.
Even when both glucose and oxygen are supplied
(which they usually aren't), the tumor cells will
consume amino acids as fuel, as well as using
them as material for growth. Tumors have been

called "nitrogen traps” or "glutamine traps," but
this has meaning beyond the use of the nitrogen
for growth; it is involved in the energetic ineffi-
ciency of this process, and the reorganizing effects
this wasteful flow of energy has on the tissue
structure (Medina, 2001). When glutamine enters
the Krebs cycle to be used as fuel, this interferes
with the ability to oxidize glucose, causing more
lactic acid to be formed, contributing to the excita-
tion and increased energy requirement.

Lactic acid activates the other major mediators
of inflammation, including prostaglandins (made
from PUFA), free fatty acids (including arachido-
nate, that forms prostaglandins; Schoonderwoerd,
et al., 1989), nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, prote-
olytic enzymes that degrade the extracellular
matrix, TNF (Jensen, et al.,- 1990), hypoxia
inducible factor (Lu, et al., 2002; McFate, et al.,
2008), interferon, and interleukins. Arachidonic
acid itself can increase lactate production (Meroni,
et al., 2003). TNFalpha and interferon gamma
activate lactic acid production by increasing
prostaglandins (Taylor, et al., 1992),

Most of the present information about cancer
cells' behavior, such as reactions to radiation and
chemical toxins, has been based on the study of
cells in culture dishes. For more than 70 years, it
was generally believed that radiation caused
mutations and cancer by directly modifying the
cells' genetic material. Then, it was discovered
that fresh cells that were added to a dish of irradi-
ated cells also developed mutations. The radiation
causes cells to emit excitatory, inflammatory,
substances such as serotonin and nitric oxide,
which injure the cells that are later put near them.

Applying this information to the existing
knowledge that radiation induces cancer in
animals, the doctrine of genetic determinism
inferred that the radiation "bystander effect" is just
another mechanism by which radiation produces
the "mutant cancer cell" or clone of cancer cells.
But the difference between events in vitro and in
vivo is that cells which are injured in the organism
immediately initiate a process of healing, and in
that situation each of the substances emitted by
injured cells is acting both locally and systemi-
cally to activate repair or regeneration of the
damaged tissue. Cells isolated in a culture dish

can't call on the organism for the necessary
materials, so the responses of the "bystander"
cells, leading to mutations and death, seem
meaningless. The injured cells are merely toxic,
rather than potentially being a stimulus to healing.

When any part of a living organism is injured,
for example by x-rays or surgery, the emitted
substances affect the endocrine and nervous
systems, activating processes that change metabo-
lism and behavior. The injured tissue takes on
new functions, for example by locally synthesiz-
ing estrogen, cortisol (Vukelic, et al., 2011), and
other hormones, as well as stimulating the normal
endocrine glands to secrete them. These interac-
tions have been generally disregarded in cancer
treatment, because of the gene-centered theory of
cancer, but they are essential for understanding
the "malignancy" of tumors, that property that
makes them likely to return after the tumor has
been destroyed, and to spread to other tissues. Has
anyone ever heard of a radiologist or surgeon who
measured estrogen or the various mediators of
inflammation before, during, and after their treat-
ments? Long range survival after breast cancer
surgery is affected by the time in the menstrual
cycle when the surgery is done (Lemon, et al.,
1996).

All sorts of stress, inflammation, and tissue
injury increase the concentration of estrogen, both
locally and systemically. Estrogen in turn
produces hypoxia, swelling, lactic acid formation,
and stimulates cell multiplication. Even a brief
period of hypoxia will cause the secretion of
lactate and other chemoattractants (Neumann, et
al., 1993), which will cause cells to move into the
hypoxic area from the blood stream. Although
lactic acid attracts immune cells, it probably
reduces their anticancer functions, and it stimu-
lates the formation of new blood vessels, support-
ing continued growth and expansion of the multi-
plying cells (Hirschhaeuer, et al., 2011). When a
tissue is being repaired normally, the new cells
sense a quorum, and stop multiplying. The return
of nerves to the damaged area is part of the regen-
erative process; nerves have inductive and stabi-
lizing effects on differentiating cells.

These complex interactions between tumor
celis and the rest of the organism are not

considered by the ideology of medical oncologists.
The ruling belief is that the malignancy of cells
can be determined by examining them microscopi-
cally, and that their rate of growth can be deter-
mined, and that the tumor's approximate time of
origin can be estimated. After surgically removing
a tumor, the administration of chemotherapy
and/or radiation is governed by mathematical
descriptions of the expected behavior of cancer
cells.

The mathematical relation of mortality to
aging was described by Benjamin Gompertz, an
actuary, in 1825, based on the understanding that
people become less able to resist dying as they get
older. This Gompertzian growth curve, which is
realistic when applied to a population of people,
flies, or rabbits, was applied to tumor growth
(A.K. Laird, in 1964). Gompertz’ reasoning that
the probability of a person's dying increases with
age has nothing to do with cancer cells, and there
is very little evidence that his law of growth is
useful for describing tumors. Laird's evidence
consisted of 19° tumor samples, taken from 10
mice, 8 rats, and a rabbit. Her suggestion that the
continuing deceleration of the growth rate might
represent a natural growth regulating process
wasn't influential, but her use of an actuarial
formula, suggesting certain properties of cancer
cells, has been extremely influential. It seems to
be the profession's great need for justification that
has made a Law of Tumor Growth so important to
them.

At the time Laird did the tumor growth study,
there was considerable interest in the idea that the
immune system could be induced to prevent tumor
growth. In 1951, Chester Southam, of the Sloan-
Kettering Institute, tested his theory of cancer
immunity on hundreds of patients and prisoners,
and his results were widely reported. He found
that pieces of tumor implanted in healthy people
caused a local intense inflammation, which healed
completely after two or three weeks. In sick
people, the rejection of the cancer implant took
about twice as long, and in people who already
had cancer, the implant was very slow to be
destroyed, and sometimes it was still present when
they died.

In 1889, Stephen Paget had noticed that
cancers metastasize only into certain organs, and
compared the cancer cells to seeds that "can only
live and grow if they fall on congenial soil."
While many people, like Southam, saw a failing
"immune system" as part of the congenial soil,
and suggested vaccination to activate an immune
rejection of the tumor, others have suggested
"reducing the soil to dust," making growth impos-

- sible in a more general way. Recently, this attitude

has taken the form of different ways of "starving"
cancer, by reducing sugar in the diet, or by block-
ing cells' ability to use sugar. The idea of making
the "soil" inhospitable to cancer is a variation on
the theme of killing the unwanted tissue.

As long as the lump is defined as an alien
material, killing it by any means seems
reasonable, but if it is seen as the body's attempt
to repair itself, then killing it is no more reason-
able than it would be to cut the spots out of
someone With smallpox.

When a cell is dying, it emits growth stimulat-
ing signals (Huang, et al., 2011). That's a normal
part of tissue renewal. Some of its substance
guides the differentiation of new cells, as demon-
strated long ago by Polezhaev (discussed in my
previous article, "Stem cells, cell culture, and
culture: Issues in regeneration"). Anything that
injures a tissue enough to require cells to be
replaced causes the activation of a regulatory
protein, hypoxia-inducible factor, HIF, which
inhibits mitochondrial respiration, causing a shift
toward glycolytic metabolism, increasing
substances needed for growth. HIF is essential to
the healing of any wound. Even glucose depriva~
tion can cause the induction of HIF. Prosta-
glandins, made from polyunsaturated fatty acids
released by stimulation, can cause HIF to increase,
but HIF also causes prostaglandins to increase.
Lactic acid increases the expression of HIF, while
HIF causes cells to shift metabolically to depend
on converting glucose to lactic acid, that is, to
adopt the "cancer metabolism." HIF is recognized
as a fundamental problem in "cancer therapy,"
since HIF allows the cancer to resist the treatment, -
but the treatment increases HIF.

Radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery all
activate these processes of cell replacement, and

| unless something has changed to improve the
organism's recuperative ability, it isn't clear why
the cells which replace the missing part should be
more able to satisfactorily complete the recovery
process than the original cells were.
amount of radiation in a single dental x-ray is
enough to activate the excitatory-inflammatory
processes, and a "therapeutic" x-ray to any part of
the body excites similar, but much greater,
processes throughout the body. But the ideology
of "the cancer cell," and the Gompertz Growth
Law, guide the practice of cancer treatment.

Many years ago, Harry Rubin was impressed
by hearing from a pathologist that he had been
able to find diagnosable cancer somewhere in the
body of every person over the age of 50 that he
had autopsied. If everyone has cancer by the age
of 50, that means that cancer is harmless for most
people, and that small cancers might frequently
appear, and be spontaneously removed as part of
the body's regular house-cleaning. One of the
reasons that spontaneous regression of tumors
seems so rare is undoubtedly that most tumors are
quickly cut out by surgeons,

Preventing injury should be a basic considera-
tion, but the medical slogan, "first do no harm,"
just doesn't apply to the cancer treatment industry,
and this results from the doctrine of "the cancer
cell," which is something to be destroyed or kept
from multiplying. In the process of diagnosing a
cancer, and during the course of treating it, the
patient is usually subjected to multiple x-ray
examinations, sometimes given radioactive drugs
that supposedly concentrate in hidden tumors to
emit positrons, and often has toxic contrast agents
injected even for MRI examinations. These proce-
dures, even before the destructive "therapies"
begin, are adding to the body's inflammatory
burden, interfering with the body's ability to
complete a healing process. Decisions about pain
control usually disregard the effects of the drugs
on tumor growth and general vitality--for
example, the opiates stimulate histamine release,
which increases inflammation and tumor growth.

In 1927, Bernstein and Elias found that rats
eating a fat free diet had almost no spontaneous
cancer, and many studies since then in animals

and people have shown a close association

Even the’

between polyunsaturated fatty acids and cancer.
The polyunsaturated fatty acids in themselves, and
their breakdown products, are excitatory and
destabilizing to normal cells, but by modifying the
sensitivity and energy production of cells, they
limit cells' ability to respond to stimulation and
destabilizing influences. Although they aren't
essential for wound healing (Porras-Reyes, et al.,
1992), they and their metabolites, the prosta-
glandins, are very conspicuous in wounds and
tumors, and their proportion generally increases
with aging. The prostaglandins are involved in
several vicious cycles, including that with HIF
mentioned above. This makes the PUFA and
prostaglandins important to consider in relation to
optimizing wound healing, and decreasing
cancerization. Aspirin's protective and therapeutic —
effects in cancer are starting to be recognized, but
there are several other things that can synergize
with aspirin to reduce the circulation of free fatty
acids and their conversion to prostaglandins. —
Niacinamide, progesterone, sugar, carbon dioxide,
and red light protect against both free fatty acids
and prostaglandins.

‘Since excitation leads to intracellular alkalin-
ity and swelling, reducing the excitation seems
reasonable, and many things which protect cells
against excitation also have demonstrated antican-
cer effects. Local anesthetics, antihistamines, and
anti-inflammatory substances and some anesthet-
ics such as xenon (Weigt, et al., 2009) are safe.
Inhibitory substances related to GABA are being
investigated for their ability to stop tumor growth.
Simply stopping excessive excitation tends to
restore the dominance of oxidative respiration
over glycolysis.

To restore the supply of oxygen, sugar, and
nutrients, swelling must be stopped. Hyperos-
motic fluids act directly on swollen cells, remov-
ing water. Stopping excitation allows a return to
efficient metabolism and reduces the injury poten-
tial, allowing the pH to decrease; with lower pH,
the cell releases some of its water.

Increasing carbon dioxide lowers the intracel-
lular pH, as well as inhibiting lactic acid forma-
tion, and restoring the oxidation of glucose
increases CO2. Inhibiting carbonic anhydrase, to
allow more CQ2 to stay in the cell, contributes to

intracellular acidification, and by systemically
increasing carbon dioxide this inhibition has a
broad range of protective anti-excitatory effects.
The drug industry is now looking for chemicals
that will specifically inhibit the carbonic
anhydrase enzymes that are active in tumors.
Existing carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as
acetazolamide, will inhibit those enzymes, without
harming other tissues. Aspirin has some effect as
an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase (Bayram, et al.,
2008). Since histamine, serotonin (Vullo, et al.,
2007), and estrogen (Barnett, et al., 2008; Garg,
1975) are carbonic anhydrase activators, their
antagonists would help to acidify the hypoxic
cells. Testosterone (Suzuki, et al., 1996) and
progesterone are estrogen antagonists that inhibit
carbonic anhydrase,

With aging, cells have less ability to produce
energy, and are often more easily stimulated. The
accumulation of polyunsaturated fats is one of the
factors that reduce the ability of mitochondria to
produce energy (Zhang, et al, 2006, 2009;
Yazbeck, et al, 1989). Increased estrogen
exposure, decreased thyroid hormone, an
increased ratio of iron to copper, and lack of light,
are other factors that impair the cytochrome
oxidase enzyme.

The increased intracellular alkalinity and intra-
cellular calcium that result from the combination
of those factors increase the tendency of cells to
be overstimulated, leading to aerobic glycolysis,
the cancer metabolism. Improving any part of the
system tends to increase carbon dioxide and
decrease lactate, permitting differentiated
functioning. ,

There are many people currently recommend-
ing fish oil (or other highly unsaturated oils) for
preventing or treating cancer, and it has become
almost as common to recommend a sugar free
diet, "because sugar feeds cancer." This is often,
incorrectly, said to be the meaning of Warburg's
demonstration that cancer cells have a respiratory
defect that causes them to produce lactic acid from
glucose even in the presence of oxygen. Cancer
cells use glucose and the amino acid glutamine
primarily for synthetic purposes, and use fats as
their energy source; the growth stimulating effect
of the "essential fatty acids" (Sueyoshi and Nagao,

1962a; Holley, et al., 1974) shows that depriving
a tumor of those fats retards its growth. The great
energetic inefficiency of the cancer metabolism,
which causes it to produce a large amount of heat
and to cause systemic stress, failure of immunity,
and weight loss, is because it synthesizes fat from
glucose and amino acids, and then oxidizes the fat
as if it were diabetic.

Estrogen, which is responsible for the fact that
women burn fatty acids more easily than men, is
centrally involved in this metabolic inefficiency.
When a tissue is exposed to estrogen, within
minutes it takes up water, and begins to synthesize
fat, with a tendency to produce lactic acid at the
same time. The alkalizing effect of lactic acid
production is apparently what. accounts for the
uptake of water. Since it takes longer, at least 30
minutes, to produce a significant amount of new
enzymes, these early changes are explained by the

activation of existing enzymes by estrogen.

The transhydrogenases, or the transhydroge-
nase function of the steroid dehydrogenases,
which shift metabolic energy between glycolytic
and oxidative systems, have been shown to
explain these effects of estrogen, but the transhy-
drogenases can be activated: by many stressors.
The biological function of the transhydrogenases
seems to be to allow cells to continue growth and
repair processes in a hypoxic environment. Estro-
gen can start the process by creating new
pathways for electrons, and will promote
processes that are started by something else, and
progesterone is estrogen's natural antagonist,
terminating the process.

Recently, a group at Johns Hopkins University
(Le, et al., 2012) has been working out the impli-
cations of this ability to change the metabolism
under hypoxia: Using an isotope-labeled amino
acid, ". . . glutamine import and metabolism
through the TCA cycle persisted under hypoxia,
and glutamine contributed significantly to citrate
carbons. Under glucose deprivation, glutamine-
derived fumarate, malate, and citrate were
significantly increased." The implication of this
is that if the tumor isn't supplied with sugar, it will
increase the rate at which it consumes the host's
proteins. Forty years ago the work of Shapot and
Blinov was showing the same effect, except that

' they demonstrated the involvement of the whole
organism, especially the liver, in interaction with
the tumor (Blinov and Shapot, 1975). ,

The alkaline cancer cell surrounds itself by the
acid that it emits, and this extracellular acidity
increases the ability of fatty acids to enter the cell
(Spector, 1969); cancer cells, although they are
synthesizing fat, also avidly take it up from their
environment (Sueyoshi and Nagao, 1962b). This
fat avidity is so extreme that cancer cells in vitro
will eat enough polyunsaturated fat to kill
themselves, This has been offered as proof that
fish oil kills cancer: Saturated fats, however, have
a calming effect on cancer cells, inhibiting their
aerobic glycolysis (Marchut, et al., 1986) while
permitting them to resume the respiratory produc-
tion of energy.

The foods that nourish the patient well enough
to support healing while permitting energy
reserves to be built up are also the foods that don't
interfere with the hormones, that don't cause
spurious excitation of the tissues. The polyunsatu-
rated fats directly stimulate the stress hormones,
activate the excitatory amino acid signals, and
directly excite cells, while the saturated fats have
opposite effects, and are anti-inflammatory, and
also don't interfere with mitochondrial function.
When we eat more carbohydrate than can be
oxidized, some of it will be turned into saturated
fats and omega-9 fats, and these will support
mitochondrial energy production. Carbohydrates
in the diet also help to decrease the mobilization
of fatty acids from storage; niacinamide and
aspirin support that effect. Sugars are probably
more favorable than starches for the immune
system (Harris, et al., 1999), and failure of the
immune system is a common feature of cancer.
Polyunsaturated fats are generally known to
suppress the immune system. Foods that provide
generous amounts of sodium, calcium,
magnesium, and potassium help to minimize
stress. Trace minerals and vitamins are important,
but can be harmful if used excessively--iron
excess is important to avoid.

Emodin, an anti-inflammatory substance
found in cascara sagrada bark and other plants, is
similar to other molecules that have been used for
treating cancer, and one of its effects is to lower

HIF: "Consistently, emodin attenuated the expres-
sion of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), VEGF,
hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-lalpha),
MMP-1 and MMP-13 at mRNA level in IL-1beta
and LPS-treated synoviocytes under hypoxia”
(Ha, et al., 2011). MMP-1 and MMP-13 are colla-
genase enzymes involved in metastasis.

When cels are fully nourished, supplied with
protective hormones, and properly illuminated,
their ability to communicate should be able to
govern their movements, preventing--and possi-
bly reversing--metastatic migration.

REFERENCES

Cancer Res. 2008 May 1;68(9):3505-15. Estrogen
receptor regulation of carbonic anhydrase XI through a
distal enhancer in breast cancer. Barnett DH, Sheng S,
Charn TH, Waheed A, Sly WS, Lin CY, Liu ET, Katzenellenbo-
gen BS.

Bioorg Med Chem. 2008 Oct 15;16(20):9101-5.In
vitro inhibition of salicylic acid derivatives on human
cytosolic carbonic anhydrase isozymes I and U1, Bayram
E, Senturk M, Kufrevioglu OJ, Supuran CT.

Int J Cancer. 1984 Oct 15;34(4):529-33. Effect of
dietary stearic acid on the genesis of spontaneous
mammary adenocarcinomas in strain A/ST mice. Bennett
AS.

Zeitschr. Krebsforsch. 28(1), 1-14, 1. Lipoids and
carcinoma growth, Bernstein, S. and Elias, H.

Vopr Onkol. 1974;20(12):60-5. [Role of gluconeo-
genesis in the maintenance of normoglycemia in the
body of animals with transplanted tumors]. [Article in
Russian] Blinoy VA, Shapot VS.

Bull Exp Biol Med. 1975 Jan;77(7):770-2. Hypergly-
cemia and gluconeogenesis in the liver of mice with
tumors. Blinoy VA, Shapot VS. Gluconeogenesis, when
sharply stimulated by exhaustion of the liver glycogen
reserves, is one of the factors maintaining the normal blood
sugar level in mice with tumors. Hyperglycemia induce by
glucose leads to an increase in the liver glycogen content
and a decrease in the intensity of gluconeogenesis in control
mice with tumors. Only in the latter, however, does glyco-
gen synthesis from noncarbohydrate compounds rise again
steadily after the injections of glucose are discontinued.

Minerva Ginecol]. 2010 Dec;62(6):573-83. Extranu-
clear signaling by estrogen: role in breast cancer
progression and metastasis. Cortez V, Mann M, Brann
DW, Vadlamudi RK.

J Steroid Biochem. 1987 Jun;26(6):679-85. Cooxida-
tion of steroidal and non-steroidal estrogens by purified
prostaglandin synthase resuits in a stimulation of prosta-
glaudin formation. Degen GH, McLachlan JA, Eling TE,
Sivarajah K.

Mol Cancer. 2009 Jul 31;8:54. Increased OXPHOS
activity precedes rise in glycolytic rate in

H-RasV12/E1A transformed fibroblasts that develop a
Warburg phenotype. de Groof AJ, te Lindert MM, van
Dommelen MM, Wu M, Willemse M, Smift AL, Winer M,
Oerlemans F, Pluk H, Fransen JA, Wieringa B.

Can J Biochem. 1972 May;50(5):447-56. Pyridine-
adenine dinucleotide transhydrogenase activity in cells
cultured from rat hepatoma. De Luca C, Gioeli RP.

J Clin Invest. 1966 Aug;45(8):1268-72. Pyridine
nucleotide transhydrogenase in normal human and
leukemic leukocytes. Evans AE, Kaplan NO.

J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1975 Feb;192(2):297-302.
Induction of hepatic carbonic anhydrase by estrogen.
Garg LC.

Biol Pharm Bull. 2011;34(9):1432-7. Emodin inhibits
proinflammatory responses and inactivates histone
deacetylase 1 in hypoxic rheumatoid synoviocytes. Ha
MK, Song YH, Jeong SJ, Lee HJ, Jung JH, Kim B, Song
HS, Huh JE, Kim SH.

Eur J Cancer. 1977 Aug;13(8):793-800. Alkalotic
disequilibrium in patients with solid tumors: rediscovery
of an old finding. Harguindey S, Speir WA, Kolbeck RC,
Bransome ED.

J Surg Res. 1999 Apr;82(2):339-45, Diet-induced
protection against lipopolysaccharide includes increased
hepatic NO production. Harris HW, Rockey DC, Young
’ DM, Welch WJ, .

J Biol Chem. 2011 Dec 23;286(51):44177-86. A
dormant state modulated by osmotic pressure controls
clonogenicity of prostate cancer cells. Havard M, Dautry
F, Tchehio T.

Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2007 Jan
12;352(2):437-43. Non-hypoxic induction of HLf-3alpha
by 2-deoxy-D-glucose and insulin. Heidbreder M, Qadri F,
Johren O, Dendorfer A, Depping R, Frohlich F, Wagner KF,
Dominiak P.

Surg Forum. 1958;9:614-9. An estradiol sensitive
transhydrogenase in normal and malignant breast tissue.
Hershey FB.

Cancer Res. 2011 Nov 15;71(22):6921-5. Lactate: a
metabolic key player in cancer. Hirschhaeuser F, Sattler
UG, Mueller-Klieser W.

‘ Am J Physiol Cell Physiol May 2000 vol. 278 no. 5,
Hypertonic perfusion inhibits intracellular Na and Ca
accumulation in hypoxic myocardium. Ho HS, Liu H,
Cala PM, and Anderson SE.

Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A, 1974 Oct;71(10):3976-8.
Control of growth of a tumor cell by finoleic acid. Holley
RW, Baldwin JH, Kiernan JA. "The growth of mouse
myeloma XS 63.5 cells in cell culture is dependent on
serum. Among the several growth factors present in serum,
the lipid fraction is highly active. The growth factor(s)
provided by the serum lipid fraction can be replaced by
unsaturated fatty acids."

_ Nat Med. 2011 Jul 3;17(7):860-6. Caspase
3-medxiated stimulation of tumor cell repopulation
during cancer radiotherapy. Huang Q, Li F, Liu X, Li W,
Shi W, Lim FF, O'Sullivan B, He Z, Peng Y, Tan AC, Zhou
L, Shen J, Han G, Wang XJ, Thorburn J, Thorburm A,

‘Yao S, Dosoretz A, Holland JF, Levine AC.

Jimeno A, Raben D, Bedford JS, Li CY. "In cancer treat-
ment, apoptosis is a well-recognized cell death mechanism
through which cytotoxic agents kill tumor cells. Here we
report that dying tumor cells use the apoptotic process
to generate potent growth-stimulating signals to stimu-

_ late the repopulation of tumors undergoing radiother-

apy." ,
J Surg Res. 1990 Oct;49(4):350-3. Lactic acidosis
increases tumor necrosis factor secretion and transcrip-
tion in vitro. Jensen JC, Buresh C, Norton JA.

J Biol Chem. 1969 Aug 25;244(16):4413-21. Human |
placental 17 beta-estradiol dehydrogenase. IV. Differen-
tiation of 17 beta-estradiol-activated transhydrogenase
from the transhydrogenase function of 17 beta-estradiol
dehydrogenase. Karavolas HJ, Orr JC, Engel LL.

Neuro Endocrinol Lett. 2011;32(4):380-8. Immuno-
therapy of cervical cancer as a biological dissipative
structure. Klimek R, Klimek M, Jasiczek D.

BMC Cancer. 2010 Jun 7;10:263. The microenviron-
ment determines the breast cancer cells' phenotype:
organization of MCF7 cells in 3D cultures. Krause S,
Maffini MV, Soto AM, Sonnenschein C.

Biosci Rep. 2012 Feb;32(1):91-104. Anti-neoplastic
action of aspirin against a T-cell lymphoma involves an
alteration in the tumour microenvironment and regula-
tion of tumour cell survival. Kumar A, Vishvakarma NK,
Tyagi A, Bharti AC, Singh SM.

ANL Rep. 1963 May:216-22. Dynamics of tumor
growth. ANL-6723. Laird AK.

Br J Cancer. 1964 Sep;13:490-502. Dynamics of
tumor growth. Laird AK.

Cell Metab.. 2012 Jan 4;15(1):110-21. Glucose-
independent glutamine metabolism via TCA cycling for
proliferation and survival in B cells. Le A, Lane AN,

. Hamaker M, Bose 8, Gouw A, Barbi J, Tsukamoto T, Rojas

CJ, Slusher BS, Zhang H, Zimmerman LJ, Liebler DC,
Slebos RJ, Lorkiewicz PK, Higashi RM, Fan TW, Dang
CV. "Using [U-(13)C,(15)N}-glutamine as the tracer,
glutamine import and metabolism through the TCA
cycle persisted under hypoxia, and glutamine contrib-
uted significantly to citrate carbons. Under glucose
deprivation, glutamine-derived fumarate, malate, and
citrate were significantly increased."

Steroids, 2012 Jan 28. Calcium-induced activation of
estrogen receptor alpha—New insight. Leclercq G.

Nebr Med J. 1996 Apr;81(4):110-5. Timing of breast
cancer surgery during the luteal menstrual phase may
improve prognosis. Lemon HM, Rodriguez-Sierra JF.

Oncogene. 2012 Jan 23. RhoA triggers a specific
signaling pathway that generates transforming microve-
sicles in cancer cells. Li B, Antonyak MA, Zhang J,
Cerione RA. Ralph SJ: ; Milsom C; Chang YW.

J Biol Chem. 2002 Dec 20;277(51):50081-6. Prosta-
glandin E2 induces hypoxia-inducible factor-lalpha
stabilization and nuclear localization in a human
prostate cancer cell line, Liu XH, Kirschenbaum A, Lu M,

Cancer Res. 2007 Oct 1;67(19):9013-7. Loss of the
mitochondrial bicenergetic capacity underlies the
glucose avidity of carcinomas. Lépez-Rfos F, Sanchez-Aragé
M, Garcfa-Garcfa E, Ortega AD, Berrendero IR, Pozo-Rodriguez
F, L épez-Encuentra A, Ballestin C, Cuezva JM.

J Biol Chem. 2002 Jun 28;277(26):23111-5.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic
glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcino-
genesis. Lu H, Forbes RA, Verma A,

Acta Biochimica Polonica (1986) 33(1), 7-16. The
inhibitory effect of various fatty acids on aerobic
glycolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumour cells, Marchut
E, GumiA,,ska M, Kedryna T.

J Biol Chem. 2008 Aug 15;283(33):22700-8.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex activity controls
metabolic and malignant phenotype in cancer cells.
McFate T, Mohyeldin A, Lu H, Thakar J, Henriques J,
Halim ND, Wu H, Schell MJ, Tsang TM, Teahan O, Zhou
S, Califano JA, Jeoung NH, Harris RA, Verma A.

Lasers Surg Med. 2010 Aug;42(6):489-93. Effect of
Ga-Al-As laser irradiation on COX-2 and cPLA2-alpha
expression in compressed human periodontal ligament
cells. Mayahara K, Yamaguchi A, Sakaguchi M, Igarashi Y,
Shimizu N.

Circ Shock. 1990 Aug;31(4):407-18. Capillary
narrowing in hemorrhagic shock is rectified by hyperos-
motic saline-dextran reinfusion. Mazzoni MC, Borgstrom
P, Intaglietta M, Arfors KE.

Journal -of Nutrition, 2001;131: 25398-25428. Gluta-
mine and Cancer, Medina MA.

Int J Androl, 2003 Oct;26(5):3 10-7, Possible role of

10

arachidonic acid in the regulation of lactate production |

in rat Sertoli cells. Meroni SB, Riera MF, Pellizzari EH,
Schteingart HF, Cigorraga SB. -

Biofizika. 1967 Noy-Dec;12(6):1085-6. [Increase in
unsaturated fatty acids during tumor growth]. [Article
in Russian] NeA-fakh EA, Lankin VZ.

Br Heart J. 1993 Jul;70(1):27-34. Cardiac release of
chemoattractants after ischaemia induced by coronary
balloon angioplasty. Neumann FJ, Richardt G, Schneider
M, Ott I, Haupt HM, Tillmanns H, SchA {mig A, Rauch B.

J Steroid Biochem 1986 May;24(5):1033-9. Aromatase
activity and concentrations of cortisol, progesterone and
testosterone in breast and abdominal adipose tissue.
Newton CJ, Samuel DL, James VH.

J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2005 Aug;60(8):970-5.
Coenzyme Q10 protects from aging-related oxidative
stress and improves mitochondrial function in heart of
rats fed a polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)}-rich diet.
Ochoa JJ, Quiles JL, Huertas JR, Mataix J.

J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2007
Nov;62(11):1211-8. Effect of lifelong coenzyme Q10
supplementation on age-related oxidative stress and
mitochondrial function in liver and skeletal muscle of
rats fed on a polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)-rich
diet. Ochoa JJ, Quiles JL, Lopez-Frias M, Huertas JR,
Mataix J.

Br J Cancer. 2007 Dec 3;97(11):1505-12. In vitro
irradiation of basement membrane enhances’ the
invasiveness of breast cancer cells. Paquette B, Baptiste C,
Therriault H, Arguin G, Plouffe B, Lemay R.

Br J Cancer. 2011 Aug 9;105(4):534-41, Radiation-
enhancement of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell
invasion prevented by a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor.
Paquette B, Therriault H, Desmarais G, Wagner R, Royer R,
Bujold R.

Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 1992
Apr;45(4):293-8. Essential fatty acids are not required
for wound healing. Porras-Reyes BH, Schreiner GF,
Lefkowith JB, Mustoe TA.

Cancer Res. 1957 Dec;17(11):1112-9. Comparison of
transhydrogenase and pyridine nucleotide-cytochrome c
reductase activities in rat liver and Novikoff hepatoma.
Reynafarje B, Potter VR.

Bioessays. 2006 May;28(5):515-24. What keeps cells
in tissues behaving normally in the face of myriad
mutations? Rubin H.

Enzymologia. 1966 Apr 30;30(4):237-42. [Occurrence
of pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase in mitochon-
dria of various ascites tumors] {Article in German]
Salvenmoser F, Kramar R, Seelich F.

Basic Res Cardiol. 1989 Mar-Apr;84(2):165-73.
Enhanced lipolysis of myocardial triglycerides during
low-flow ischemia and anoxia in the isolated rat heart.
Schoonderwoerd K, Broekhoven-Schokker S, Hulsmann
WC, Stam H.

Naturwissenschaften. 1965 Jun;52:307-8. On the effect
of NADPH2-NAD-transhydrogenase on direct oxidation
of glucose; experiments with the use of Ehrlich ascites
tumor homogenates. Seelich F, Salvenmoser F, Kramar R.

J Endocrinol 1998 Sep;158(3):401-7. Progesterone
inhibits glucocorticoid-dependent aromatase induction
in human adipose fibroblasts. Schmidt M, Renner C,
Loffler G.

Cancer Res. 1974 Aug;34(8):1827-32. Blood glucose
levels and gluconeogenesis in animals bearing trans-
plantable tumors. Shapot VS, Blinov VA.

EMBO J. 2007 Mar 21;26(6):1713-25. Structures and
physiological roles of 13 integral lipids of bovine heart
cytochrome c oxidase. Shinzawa-Itoh K, Aoyama H,
Muramoto kK, Terada H, Kurauchi T, Tadehara Y, Yamasaki
A, Sugimura T, Kurono S, Tsujimoto K, Mizushima T,
Yamashita E, Tsukihara T, Yoshikawa S.

Semin Cancer Biol. 2008 Oct;18(5):372-7. Theories of
carcinogenesis: an emerging perspective. Sonnenschein
C, Soto AM.

Cancer Res, 2011 Jul 1;71(13):4334-7. The death of
the cancer cell. Sonnenschein C, Soto AM.

J Lipid Res. 1969 Mar;10(2):207-15. Influence of pH
of the medium on free fatty acid utilization by isolated
mammalian cells. Spector AA.

Cancer Biol Ther. 2009 Jan;8(1):31-5. Inflammation,
but not hypoxia, mediated HIF-lalpha activation
depends on COX-2. Stasinopoulos I, O'Brien DR,

Bhujwalla ZM.

at

‘Cancer Res. 1965 Aug;25(7):957-61. Hepatic lipids in
tumor-bearing (glioma) mice. Stein AA, Opalka E, Rosen-
blum I.

Adv Exp Med Biol. 2004;559:325-30. Cell swelling-
induced peptide hormone secretion. Strbak V, Benicky J,
Greer SE, Bacova Z, Najvirtova M, Greer MA.

Allergy. 2011 Mar;66(3):341-50. Treatment of mast
cells with carbon dioxide suppresses degranulation via a
novel mechanism involving repression of increased intra-
cellular calcium levels, Strider ]W, Masterson CG, Durham
PL.

Keio J Med. 1962 Dec;11:223-5. The influence of
linoleum acid upon the growth of transplanted sarcoma,
Sueyoshi Y and Nagao Y.

Keio J. Med. 1962;11(1):25-32. Studies on the
linoleum acid contents in the phospholipids of the
sarcoma, Sueyoshi Y and Nagao Y.

Comp Biochem Physiol C Pharmacol Toxicol Endocri-
nol. 1996 Jun;114(2):105-12. Effect of testosterone on

_carbonic anhydrase and MG(2+)-dependent HCO3-
stimulated ATPase activities in rat kidney: comparison
with estradiol effect. Suzuki S, Yoshida J, Takahashi T.

Arch Biochem Biophys. 1991 Aug 15;289(1):33-8. A
possible mechanism of mitochondria! dysfunction during
cerebral ischemia: inhibition of mitochondrial respira-
tion activity by arachidonic acid. Takeuchi Y, Morii H,
Tamura M, Hayaishi 0, Watanabe Y.

Int J Cancer. 2012 Jan 1;130(1):159-69. doi:
{0.1002/ijc.25990. Sugars in diet and risk of cancer in the
NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study. Tasevska-N, Jiao L,
Cross AJ, Kipnis V, Subar AF, Hollenbeck A, Schatzkin A,
Potischman N.

Cire Shock. 1992 Jun;37(2):105-10. Inflammatory
cytokines stimulate glucose uptake and glycolysis but
reduce glucose oxidation in human dermal fibroblasts in
vitro. Taylor DJ, Faragher EB, Evanson JM.

Acta Biol Med Ger. 1966;16(4):364-71. [The effect of
higher fatty acids on the energy metabolism of Ehrlich-
ascites tumor cells. L The effect of saturated and trans-
configurated unsaturated fatty acids on anaerobic glyco-
lysis]. [Article in German] Theise H.

Am J Physiol. 1975 Jan;228(1):27-33. Acid-induced
excitation of afferent cardiac sympathetic nerve fibers.
Uchida Y, Murao S.

J Biol Chem. 2011 Mar 25;286(12):10265-75. Cortisol
synthesis in epidermis is induced by IL-1 and tissue
injury. Vukelic S, Stojadinovic O, Pastar I, Rabach M,
Krzyzanowska A, Lebrun E, Davis SC, Resnik S, Brem H,
Tomice~Canic M.

Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2007 Aug 1;17(15):4107-12.
Carbonic anhydrase activators: activation of the human
isoforms VII (cytosolic) and XIV (transmembrane) with
amino acids and amines. Vullo D, Innocenti A, Nishimori
1, Scozzafava A, Kaila K, Supuran CT.

Mol Nutr Food Res. 2011 Dec;55(12):1745-58. GABA
(gamma-aminobutyric acid), a non-protein amino acid
counters the beta-adrenergic cascade-activated
oncogenic signaling in pancreatic cancer: a review of

11

Al-Wadei

HA, Ullah MF,

experimental evidence,
Al-Wadei M.

Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol. 2011 Dec 22.
Bioenergetic Origins of Complexity and Disease. Wallace
DC, "The organizing power of energy flow is hypothesized
to be the origin of biological complexity and its decline the
basis of complex" diseases and aging."

Acta Neurobiol Exp (Wars). 2009;69(4):429-40.
Xenon blocks AMPA and NMDA receptor channels by
different mechanisms. Weigt HU, Fohr KJ, Georgieff M,
Georgieff EM, Senftleben U, Adolph O.

Neuroscience. 2010 Dec 15;171G):859-68. Low
energy laser light (632.8 nm) suppresses amyloid-f
peptide-induced oxidative and inflammatory responses
in astrocytes, Yang X, Askarova S, Sheng W, Chen JK,
Sun AY, Sun GY, Yao G, Lee JC.

Comp Biochem Physiol A. 1989;94(2):273-6. The
effects of essential fatty acid deficiency on brown
adipose tissue activity in rats maintained at thermal
neutrality. Yazbeck J, Goubern M, Senault C, Chapey MF,
Portet R.

Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2006
May;290(5):C 1321-33. | Polyunsaturated fatty acids
mobilize intracellular Ca2+ in NT2 human teratocarci-
noma cells by causing release of Ca2+ from mitochon-
dria. Zhang BX, Ma X, Zhang W, Yeh CK, Lin A, Luo J,
Sprague EA, Swerdiow RH, Katz MS.

PLoS One. 2009 Jun 26;4(6):e6048. Linoleic acid-
induced mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux causes peroxyni-
trite generation and protein nit: viyrosyiation. Zhang
HM, Dang H, Yeh CK, Zhang BX.

Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2011
Nov;301(S):H1882-90. Dihydrotestosterone attenuates
hypoxia inducible factor-lalpha and cyclooxygenase-2 in
cerebral arteries during hypoxia or hypoxia with glucose
deprivation. Zuloaga KL, Gonzales RJ.

Pet rrocerroc core fy

