Ray Peat's Newsletter

Independence - is loyalty to one's best self and principles, and this is often disloyalty to the general idols and fetishes. Mark Twain

Copyright 2011

_Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405
Not for republication without written permission.

January 2012

Fats, functions & malfunctions

Around the beginning of the 20th century, it
was commonly believed that aging resulted from
the accumulation of insoluble metabolic
by-products, sort of like the clinker ash in a coal
furnace. Later, age pigment or lipofuscin, was
proposed to be such a material. It is a brown
pigment that generally increases with age, and its
formation is increased by consumption of unsatu-
rated fats, by vitamin E deficiency, by stress, and
by exposure to excess estrogen, Although the
pigment can contribute to the degenerative
processes, aging involves much more than the
accumulation of insoluble debris; aging increases
the tendency to form the debris, as well as vice
versa. . )

There is a growing recognition that a persistent
increase of free fatty acids in the serum, which is
seen in shock, heart failure, and aging, indicates a
bad prognosis, but there is no generally recognized
explanation for the fact that free fatty acids are
harmful. I want to mention some evidence showing
that it is the accumulation of polyunsaturated fats
in the body that makes them harmful,

‘The physical and functional properties of
saturated fatty acids and polyunsaturated fatty
acids (PUFA) are as different from each other as
day is from night. The different fatty acids are
directly involved, very often with opposite effects,
in cell division and growth, cell stability and disso-
lution, the organization of cells, tissues, and
organs, the regulation of pituitary hormones,
adrenalin and sympathetic nervous , activation,
histamine and serotonin synthesis, adrenal cortex
hormones, thyroid hormones, testosterone, estro-
gen, activators of the immune system and inflam-
mation (cytokines), autoimmune diseases,
detoxification, obesity, diabetes, puberty, epilepsy,

Parkinson's disease, other degenerative nerve
diseases and Alzheimer's disease, cancer, heart
failure, atherosclerosis, and strokes. In each of
these situations, the PUFA have harmful! effects.
Most people are surprised to hear about the
systematically harmful effects of the common

Saturated fatty acids terminate the stress

reactions, polyunsaturated fatty acids amplify
them.

dietary polyunsaturated fats and the protective
effects of saturated fats. That's because there is a
pervasive mythology of fats in our culture.
Officials are proposing to tax saturated fats. Laws
are being passed prescribing the fats that can be
served in restaurants, and people write letters to
editors about them, and great amounts of money
are spent publicizing the importance of eating the
right fats. Their focus is on _ obesity,
atherosclerosis, and heart disease. The details of
the myth change a little, as new fat products and
industries appear. .

As I understand the basic myth, the difference
between the “essential" polyunsaturated fats and
the saturated fats has to do with their shape---the
unsaturated fatty acids bend or fold in a way that .
makes them more mobile than saturated fats of the
same length, and this causes the all-important
"membranes" of cells to be more fluid, and thus to
have "better functions," though the myth isn't very
clear on the issue of fluidity and functionality, At
that point, it passes responsibility to the more
fundamental biological myth, of the metabolically
active cell membrane.

Practically everyone learns, in grade school
and from television, about the good and the bad
oils, and cell membranes, but it might seem likely
that people who spend their lives investigating the
role of fats in organisms would have acquired a
different, more complicated, view. But one of the
most famous food fat researchers, J.M. Bourre,
has succinctly (and thoughtlessly) expressed his
understanding of the function of fatty substances in
the body: "In fact the brain, after adipose tissue, is
the organ richest in lipids, whose only role is to
participate in membrane structure." (J.M. Bourre,
2004.) The fact that his editor let him publish the
statement shows how the myth functions, causing
people to accept things because they are “common
knowledge." The influence of the medical and

The most highly unsaturated fats, inchid-
ing DHA, accumulate with aging, and their

toxic fragments are increased in Alzheimer's
disease.

pharmaceutical industries is so pervasive that it
becomes the context for most biological research.

Luckily, many people are working outside the
myth, in specialized problems of physiology and
cell biology, and their observations are showing a
reality much more complex and interesting than
the mythology.

When we eat more protein or carbohydrate
than we need, the excess can be converted to fats,
to be stored (as triglycerides), but even on a
maintenance diet we synthesize some fats that are
essential parts of all of our cells, including a great
variety of phospholipids. People seldom talk about
the importance of fats in the nucleus of the cell,
but every nucleus contains a variety of lipids--
phospholipids, sphingolipids, cholesterol, even
triglycerides--similar to those that are found
elsewhere in the cell and in every part of the body,
including the brain (Balint and Holczinger, 1978;
Irvine, 2002). Phospholipids are often considered
to be “membrane lipids," but they have been
demonstrated in association with elements of the
cell's skeleton, involved in cell division, rather than
in membranes (Shogomori, et al., 1993).

The cytoskeleton, a fibrous framework of the
cell that's responsible for maintaining the organized
structure of the cell, internal movement of organ-
elles, coordination, locomotion, and cell division,
is made up of three main kinds of protein, and all
of these are affected differently by different kinds
of fat.

Actions of lipids on the cell skeleton can
change cells’ movements, migrations, and invasive-
ness. Unsaturated fats cause clumping of some
types of cell filament, condensation and polymeri-
zation of other types, in ways that are associated
with brain degenerative diseases and cancer. For
example, DHA alters the structure of the protein
alpha-synuclein, causing it to take the form seen in
Parkinson's disease and other brain conditions.
The synucleins regulate various _ structural
proteins, and are affected by stress, aging, and
estrogen exposure, as well as by the polyunsatu-
rated fats. One type of synuclein is involved in the
promotion of breast cancer. Saturated fatty acids .
have exactly the opposite effects of PUFA on the
synucleins, reversing the polymerization caused by
the PUFA (Sharon, et al., 2003).

When cancers are metastasizing, their
phospholipids contain less stearic acid than the fess
malignant tumors (Bougnoux, et al., 1992), -
patients with advanced cancer had less stearic acid
in their red blood cells (Persad, et al., 1990), and
adding stearic acid to their food delayed the devel-
opment of cancer in mice (Bennett, 1984). The
degree of saturation of the body's fatty acids
corresponds to resistance to several types of
cancer that have been studied (Hawley and
Gordon, 1976; Singh, et al., 1995).

The phospholipids are being discussed in
relation to drugs that can modify “signaling” by
acting on phospholipid receptors, using language
that was developed in relation to hormones. A
surface barrier membrane, with receptors that send
signals to the nucleus, is invoked by many of the
recent discussions of phospholipids. There's no
question that the fats do affect regulatory
processes, but the theory and the language should
correspond to the physiological and ecological
realities. Vernadski's metaphor, that an organism is
a "whirlwind of atoms," is probably more appro-
priate than “targeted signals and receptors" for’
understanding the physiology of fatty acids and
phospholipids. The rate of change and renewal of
these structural fats is very high. In rats, one study
found a 30% decrease in the total phospholipid
pool in the brain in the first 30 minutes after death
(Adineh, et al.; 2004). Another study in the brains

of living rats found that a particular class of brain

lipids, ethanolamine plasmalogens, had a turnover
time of about 5 hours (Masuzawa, et al., 1984).

(This type of lipid is an important component of
the lipoproteins secreted by the liver into the
serum [Vance, 1990], and is also a major lipid in
the heart and brain.) Stresses such as the loss of
sleep cause great distortions in phospholipid
metabolism throughout the body, especially in the
brain and liver.

Actions of lipids on the cell skeleton can be
seen, even in short term experiments. The effects
of the "essential fatty acid" linoleic acid have been
compared to the drug colchicine, which is known
to interfere with the cell skeleton and cell division.
According to Hoover, et al., (1981), it disturbed
the structure of the cytoskeleton more than colchi-
cine does; it caused the cell filaments to clump
together, while saturated fatty acids didn't have
such an effect.

The fatty molecules that participate in the
normal cell functions are made by cells even when
they are grown in a fat-free solution in a culture
dish. They include saturated fatty acids such as
palmitate and stearate, and omega-9 unsaturated
fats, such as oleic acid and omega-9 polyunsatu-
rated fatty acids. The saturated fatty acids found in
the nucleus associated with the chromosomes are
resistant to change when the composition of the
animal's diet changes (Awad and Spector, 1976),
while the unsaturated fats change according to the
diet. These intracellular fats are essential for cell
division and the regulation of the genes, and for
cell survival (Irvine, 2002). Although cells make
the saturated fats that participate in those basic
functions, the high rate of metabolism means that
some of the lipids will quickly reflect in their struc-
ture the free fatty acids that circulate in the blood.
The fats in the blood reflect the individual's diet
history, but recently eaten fats can appear in the
serum as free fatty acids, if the liver isn't able to
conyert them into triglycerides.

The polyunsaturated fatty acids differ from the
saturated fats in many ways, besides their shape
and their melting temperature, and each type of
fatty acid is unique in its combination of
properties. The polyunsaturated fatty acids, made
by plants (in the case of fish oils, they are made by
algae), are less stable than the saturated fats, and

the omega-3 and omega-6 fats derived from them,

are very susceptible to breaking down into toxins,

especially in warm-blooded animals. Other differ-
ences between saturated and polyunsaturated fats

are in their effects on surfaces (as surfactant),

charges (dielectric effects), acidity, and their
solubility in water relative to their solubility in oil.
The polyunsaturated fatty acids are many times

more water soluble than saturated fatty acids of
the same length. This property probably explains
why only palmitic acid functions as a surfactant in
the lungs, allowing the air sacs to stay open, while
unsaturated fats cause lung edema and respiratory

failure.

The great difference in water/oil solubility
affects the strength of binding between a fatty acid
and the lipophilic, oil-like, parts of proteins. When
a protein has a region with a high affinity for lipids
that contain double bonds, polyunsaturated fatty
acids will displace saturated fats, and they can
sometimes displace hormones containing multiple
double bonds, such as thyroxine and estrogen,
from the proteins that have a high specificity for
those hormones. Transthyretin (also called preal-
bumin) is important as a carrier of the thyroid
hormone and vitamin A. The unsaturation of
vitamin A and of thyroxin allows them to bind
firmly with transthyretin and certain other
proteins, but the unsaturated fatty acids are able to
displace them, with an efficiency that increases
with the number of double bonds, from linoleic
(with two double bonds) through DHA (with six
double bonds).

The large amount of albumin in the blood is
important in normal fatty acid binding and trans-
port, but it is also an important part of our detoxi-
fying system, since it can carry absorbed toxins
from the intestine, lungs, or skin to the liver, for
detoxification. Albumin facilitates the uptake of
saturated fatty acids by cells of various types
(Paris, et al., 1978), and its ability to bind fatty
acids can protect cells to some extent from the
unsaturated fatty acids (e.g., Rhoads, et al., 1983).
The liver's detoxification system processes some
polyunsaturated fats for excretion, along with
hormones and environmental toxins.

The movement of proteins from the plasma
into cells has often been denied, but there is clear

evidence that a variety of proteins, including IgG,
transferrin haptoglobin, and albumin can be found
in a variety of cells, even in the brain (Liu, et al.,
1989). Cells are lipophilic, and absorb molecules in
proportion to their fattiness; this long ago led
people to theorize that cells are coated with a fat
membrane.

The idea of a semipermeable membrane,
similar in function to the membrane inside an egg
shell, was proposed about 150 years ago, to
explain the ability of living cells to concentrate
certain chemicals, such as potassium ions, while
excluding others, such as sodium ions. This idea of
a molecular sieve was shown to be invalid when
radioactive isotopes made it possible to observe
that sodium ions diffuse freely into cells, and it was
replaced by the idea of a metabolically active
membrane, containing "pumps" that made up for
the inability to exclude various things, and that
allowed cells to retain high concentrations of some
dissolved substances that are free to diffuse out of
the cell. The general idea of the membrane as a
barrier persisted as a sort of "common sense” idea,
that has made people ignore experiments that
show that some large molecules, including some
proteins, can quickly and massively enter cells.
Albumin and transthyretin are two proteins that
are sometimes found in large quantities inside
cells, and their primary importance is that they
bind and transport biologically active oily
molecules. ,

While the competition by PUFA for protein
binding sites blocks the effects of thyroid hormone
and vitamin A, the action of PUFA on the sex
steroid binding protein (SBP, or SSBG, for sex
steroid binding globulin) increases the activity of
estrogen. That's because the SSBG neutralizes
estrogen by binding it, keeping it out of cells; free
PUFA keep it from binding estrogen (Reed, et al.,
1986). People with low SSBG/estrogen ratio have
an increased risk of cancer. When the SSBG
protein is free of estrogen, it is able to enter cells,
and in that estrogen-free state it probably serves a
similar protective function, capturing estrogen
molecules that enter cells before they can act on
other proteins or chromosomes. Transthyretin, the
main transporter of thyroid and vitamin A, and
albumin (which can also transport thyroid

hormone) are both able to enter cells, while loaded
with thyroid hormone and vitamin A. Albumin
becomes more lipophilic as it binds more lipid
molecules, so its tendency to enter cells increases
in proportion to its fat burden. Albumin in the
urine is a problem associated with diabetes and
kidney disease; albumin loaded with fatty acids
passes from the blood into the urine more easily
than unloaded albumin, and it is the fatty acids, not
the albumin, which cause the kidney damage
(Kamijo, et al., 2002). It's possible that SSBG's
opposite behavior, entering cells only when it
carries no hormones, is the result of becoming less
lipophilic when it's loaded with estrogen.

Since most people believe that cells are
enclosed within a barrier membrane, a new indus-
try has appeared to sell special products to
"target" or "deliver" proteins into.cells across the
barrier. Combining anything with fat makes it
more likely to enter cells. Stress (which increases
free fatty acids and lowers cell energy) makes ceils
more permeable, admitting a broader range of
substances, including those that are less lipophilic.

Linoleic acid and arachidonic acid, which are
said to "make the lipid’ membrane more
permeable," in fact make the whole cell more
permeable, by binding to the structural proteins
throughout the cell, increasing their affinity for
water, causing generalized swelling, as well as
mitochondrial swelling (leading to reduced oxida-
tive function or disintegration), allowing more .
calcium to enter the cell, activating excitatory
processes, stimulating a redox shift away from
oxidation and toward inflammation, leading to
either (inappropriate) growth or death of the cell.

_ When we don't eat for many hours, our glyco-
gen stores decrease, and adrenaline secretion is
increased, liberating more glucose as long as
glycogen is available, but also liberating fatty acids
from the fatty tissues. When the diet has chroni-
cally contained more polyunsaturated fats than can
be oxidized immediately or detoxified by the liver,
the fat stores will contain a disproportionate
amount of them, since fat cells preferentially
oxidize saturated fats for their own energy, and
the greater water solubility of the PUFA causes
them to be preferentially released into the blood-
stream during stress.

In good health, especially in children, the stress
hormones are produced only in the amount
needed, because of negative feedback from the
free saturated fatty acids, which inhibit the produc-
tion of adrenalin and adrenal steroids, and eating
protein and carbohydrate will quickly end the
Stress. But when the fat stores contain mainly
PUFA, the free fatty acids in the serum will be
mostly linoleic acid and arachidonic acid, and
smaller amounts of other unsaturated fatty acids.
These PUFA stimulate the stress hormones,
ACTH, cortisol, adrenaline, glucagon, and prolac-
tin, which increase lipolysis, producing more fatty
acids in a vicious circle. In the relative absence of
PUFA, the stress reaction is self limiting, but under
the influence of PUFA, the stress response
becomes self-amplifying.

When stress is very intense, as in trauma or
sepsis, the reaction of liberating fatty acids can
become dangerously counter-productive, produc-
ing the state of shock. In shock, the liberation of
free fatty acids interferes with the use of glucose
for energy and causes cells to take up water and
calcium (depleting blood volume and reducing
circulation) and to leak ATP, enzymes, and other
cell contents (Boudreault and Grygorezyk, 2008;
Wolfe, et al., 1983; Selzner, et al, 2004; van der
Wijk, 2003), in something like a systemic inflam-
matory state (Fabiano, et al., 2008) often leading
to death.

The remarkable resistance of “essential fatty
acid deficient" animals to shock (Cook, et al.,
1981; Li et al., 1990; Autore, et al., 1994) shows
that the polyunsaturated fats are centrally involved
in the maladaptive reactions of shock. The cellular
changes that occur in shock--calcium retention,
leakiness, reduced energy production--are seen in
aging and the degenerative diseases; the stress
hormones and free fatty acids tend to be chroni-
cally higher in old age, and an outstanding feature
of old age is the reduced ability to tolerate stress
and to recover from injuries, _

Despite the instability of polyunsaturated fatty
acids, which tend to break down into toxic
fragments, and despite their tendency to be prefer-
entially liberated from fat cells during stress, the
proportion of them in many tissues increases with
age (Laganiere and Yu, 1993, 1987; Lee, et al.,

The most highly unsaturated fats found in
fish oil break down into chemicals that block

the use of glucose and oxygen.

1999; Smidova, et al., 1990; Tamburini, et al.,
2004; Nourooz-Zadeh J and Pereira, 1999). This
progressive increase with age can be seen already
in early childhood (Guerra, et al., 2007). The
reason for this increase seems to be that the
saturated fatty acids are preferentially oxidized by
many types of cell, (fat cells can slowly oxidize fat
for their own energy maintenance). Albumin
preferentially delivers saturated fatty acids into
actively metabolizing cells such at the heart (Paris,
1978) for use as fuel. This preferential oxidation
would explain Hans Selye's results, in which
canola oil in the diet caused the death of heart
cells, but when the animals received stearic acid in
addition to the canola oil, their hearts showed no
sign of damage.

Since healthy cells are very lipophilic,
saturated fatty acids would have a greater
tendency to enter them than the more water
soluble polyunsaturated fats, especially those with
4, 5, or 6 double bonds, but as cells become
chronically stressed they more easily admit the
unsaturated fats, which slow oxidative metabolism
and create. free radical damage. The free radicals
are an effect of stress and aging, as well as a factor
in its progression.

When stress signals activate enzymes in fat
cells to release free fatty acids from the stored
triglycerides, the enzymes in the cytoplasm act on
the surface of the droplet of fat. This means that
the fatty acids with the greatest water solubility
will be liberated from the fat to move into the
blood stream, while the more oil soluble fatty
acids will remain in the droplet. The long chain of
saturated carbon atoms (8 in the case of oleic acid,
15 in palmitic acid, and 17 in stearic acid) in the
"tail" of oleic, palmitic, and stearic acid will be
buried in the fat droplet, while the tail of the n-3
fatty acids, with only 2 saturated carbons, will be
the most exposed to the lipolytic enzymes. This
means that the n-3 fatty acids are the first to be
liberated during stress, the n-6 fatty acids next.
Saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids are
selectively retained by fat cells (Speake, et al.,
1997).

Women are known to have a greater suscepti-
bility than men to lipolysis, with higher levels of
free fatty acids in the serum and liver, because of
the effects of estrogen and related hormones.

Women on average have more DHA circulat-
ing in the serum than men (Giltay, et al., 2004;
McNamara, et al., 2008; Childs, et al., 2008). This
highly unsaturated fatty acid is the first to be liber-
ated from the fat stores under stress, and, biologi-

‘cally, the meaning of estrogen is to mimic stress.
Estrogen and polyunsaturated fatty acids have
similar actions on cells, increasing their water
content and calcium uptake. Long before the
Women’s Health Initiative reported in 2002 that
the use of estrogen increased the risk of dementia,
it was known that the incidence of Alzhemer's
disease was 2 or 3 times higher in women than in
men. Men with Alzheimer's disease have higher
levels of estrogen than normal men (Geerlings, et
al., 2006). The amount of DHA in the brain (and
other tissues) increases with aging, and its break-
down products, including neuroprostanes, are
associated with dementia. Higher levels of DHA
and total PUFA are found in the plasma of
demented patients (Laurin, et al., 2003).

Another interesting association of the highly
unsaturated fats and estrogen in relation to brain
function is that DHA increases the entry of estro-
gen into the pregnant uterus, but inhibits the entry
of progesterone (Benassayag, et al., 1999), which
is crucial. for brain cell growth. When Dirix, et al.,
(2009) supplemented pregnant women with
PUFA, they found that fetal memory was
impaired. ;

The crucial mitochondrial respiratory enzyme,
cytochrome c oxidase, declines with aging
(Paradies, et al., 1997), as the lipid cardiolipin
declines, and the enzyme's activity can be restored
to the level of young animals by adding cardiolipin.
The composition of cardiolipin changes with
aging, “specifically an increase in highly unsatu-
rated fatty acids” (Lee, et al., 2006). Other lipids, —
such as a phosphatidylcholine containing two
myristic acid groups, can support the enzyme's
activity (Hoch, 1992). Even supplementing old
animals with hydrogenated peanut oil restores

mitochondrial respiration to about 80% of normal
(Bronnikov, et al., 2010). Supplementing thyroid

The ratio of saturated fatty acids to
polyunsaturated fatty acids is decreased in

cancer. Omega-3 fats promote metastasis.

hormone increases mitochondrial cardiolipin
(Paradies and Ruggiero, 1988). Eliminating the
polyunsaturated fats from the diet increases
mitochondrial respiration (Rafael, et al., 1984).

Excitotoxicity is the process in which activa-
tion of a nerve celi beyond its capacity to produce
energy injures or kills the cell, by increasing intra-
cellular calcium. Glutamic acid and aspartic acid
are the normal neurotransmitter excitatory amino
acids. Estrogen increases the activity of the excita-
tory transmitter glutamate (Weiland, 1992), and
glutamate increases the release of free fatty acids
(Kolko, et al., 1996), DHA (more strongly even
than arachidonic acid) inhibits the uptake of the
excitotoxic amino acid aspartate, and in some
Situations glutamate, prolonging their actions.
Thymocytes are much more easily killed by stress
than nerve cells, and they are easy to study. The
PUFA kill them by increasing their intracellular
calcium. The toxicity of DHA is greater than that
of EPA, whose toxicity is greater than alpha-
linolenic acid, and linoleic acid was the most
potent (Prasad, et al., 2010). Excitotoxicity is
probably an important factor in Alzheimer's
disease (Danysz and Parsons, 2003).

When the brain is injured, DHA and arachi-
donic acid contribute to brain edema, weakening
the blood-brain-barrier, increasing protein break-
down, inflammation, and peroxidation, while a
similar amount of stearic acid in the same situation
caused no harm (Yang, et al., 2007). In other
situations, such as the important intestinal barrier,
EPA and DHA also greatly increased the perme-
ability (Dombrowsky, et al., 2011).

The process by which excitotoxicity kills a cell
is probably a foreshortened version of the aging
process. ,

Excitotoxins (including endotoxin) increase
the formation of neuroprostanes and isoprostanes
(from n-3 and n-6 PUFA) (Milatovic, et al., 2005),
and acrolein and other fragments, which inhibit the
use of glucose and oxygen. DHA and EPA

produce acrolein and HHE, which react with lysine
groups in proteins, and modify nucleic acids,
changing the bases in DNA.

Increased intracellular calcium activates lipoly-
sis (by phospholipases), producing more free fatty
acids, as well as excitation and protein breakdown,
and in the brain neurodegenerative diseases,
calcium excess contributes to the clumping of
synuclein (Wojda, et al., 2008), an important
regulator of the cytoskeletal proteins. The reduced
function of normal synuclein makes cells more
susceptible to excitotoxicity (Leng and Chuang,
2006).

If the cells adapt to the increased calcium,
rather than dying, their sensitivity is reduced. This
is probably involved in the “defensive inhibition"
seen in many types of cell. In the brain, DHA and
arachidonic acid "brought the cells to a new steady
state of a moderately elevated [intracellular
calcium] level, where the celis became virtually
insensitive to external stimuli. This new steady
state can be considered as a mechanism of self-
protection" (Sergeeva, et al., 2005). In the heart,
the PUFAs decreased the sensitivity to stimulation
(Coronel et al.,.2007) and conduction velocity
(Tselentakis, et al., 2006; Dhein, et al., 2005).
Both DHA and EPA inhibit calcium-ATPase
(which keeps intracellular calcium low to allow
normal neurotransmission) in the cerebral cortex;
this suggests "a mechanism that explains the
dampening effect of omega-3 fatty acids on
neuronal activity" (Kearns and Haag, 2002).

_ In normal aging, most processes are slowed,

including nerve conduction velocity, and conduc-

tion velocity in the heart (Dhein and Hammerath,

2001). A similar "dampening" or desensitization is
seen in sensory, endocrine, and immune systems,
as well as in energy metabolism. Calorie
restriction, by decreasing the age-related accumu-

lation of PUFA (20:4, 22:4, and 22:5), can prevent

the decrease of sensitivity, for example in
lymphoid cells (Laganier and Fernandes, 1991).-
The known effects of the unsaturated fats on the

organizational framework of the cell are consistent
with the changes that occur in aging.

One of the essential protective functions that
decling with aging is the liver's ability to detoxify
chemicals, by combining them with glucuronic

acid, making them water soluble so that they can
be excreted in the urine. The liver (and also the
intestine and stomach) efficiently process DHA by
glucuronidation (Little, et al., 2002). Oleic acid,

-one of the fats that we synthesize ourselves,

increases (about 8-fold) the activity of the glucu-
ronidation process (Kremery and Zakim, 1993;
Okamura, et al., 2006). However, this system is

inhibited by the PUFA, arachidonic acid
(Yamashita, et al., 1997), and also by linoleic acid
(Tsoutsikos, et al., 2004), in one of the processes

that contribute to the accumulation of PUFA with
aging.

Animals that naturally have a relatively low
level of the highly unsaturated fats in their tissues
have the greatest longevity. For example, the
naked mole rate has a life expectancy of more than
28 years, about 9 times as long as other rodents of
a similar size. Only about 2% to 6% of its
phospholipids contain DHA, while about 27% to
57% of the phospholipids of mice contain DHA
(Mitchell, et al., 2007).

The famously long-lived people of Azerbaijan
eat a diet containing a low ratio of unsaturated to
saturated fats, emphasizing fruits, vegetables, and
dairy products (Grigorov, et al., 1991).

Some of the clearest evidence of the protective
effects of saturated fats has been published by
A.A. Nanji's group, showing that they can reverse
the inflammation, necrosis, and fibrosis of
alcoholic liver disease, even with continued
alcohol consumption, while fish oil and other
unsaturated fats exacerbate the problem (Nanji, et
al., 2001), Glycine protects against fat accumula-
tion in alcohol-induced liver injury (Senthilkumar,
et al., 2003), suggesting that dietary gelatin would
complement the protective effects of saturated
fats.

The least stable n-3 fats which accumulate
with age and gradually reduce energy production
also have their short term effects on endurance.
Endurance was much lower in rats fed a high n-3
fat diet, and the effect persisted even after 6 weeks
on a standard diet (Ayre and Hulbert, 1997).
Analogous, but less extreme effects are seen even
in salmon, which showed increased oxidative
stress on a high n-3 diet (DHA or EPA), and
lower mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase activity
(Kjaer, et al., 2008).

Maintaining a high rate of oxidative metabo-
lism, without calorie restriction, retards the
accumulation of PUFA, and a high metabolic rate
is associated with longevity. An adequate amount
of sugar maintains both a high rate of metabolism,
and a high respiratory quotient, i.e, high produc-
tion of carbon dioxide. Mole rats, bats, and queen
bees, with an unusually great longevity, are chroni-
cally exposed to high levels of carbon dioxide.
Carbon dioxide forms carbamino bonds with the
amino groups of proteins, inhibiting their reaction
with the reactive "glycating" fragments of PUFA.

To minimize the accumulation of the highly
unsaturated fatty acids with aging, it's probably
reasonable to reduce the amount of them directly
consumed in foods, such as fish, but since they are

made in our own tissues from the "essential fatty -

acids," linoleic and linolenic acids, it's more impor-
tant to minimize the consumption of those (from
plants, pork, and poultry, for example).

In the resting state, muscles consume mainly
fats, so maintaining relatively large muscles is
important for preventing the, accumulation of fats.

REFERENCES

Program No, 680.23. 2004 Washington, DC: Society
for Neuroscience, 2004, Online. Postmortem rat brain
analysis of phospholipid composition using P31 NMR
spectroscopy, Adineh M, Kent M, Shah S, Polelstra R,
White P, Simkins R.

Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Apr 11;466(1-2):199-205.
Vascular permeabilization by intravenous arachidonate
in the rat peritoneal cavity: antagonism by antioxidants.
Alvarez-Guetrra M, Hannaert P, Hider H, Chiavaroli C,
Garay RP.

Aging Cell. 2006 Dec;5(6):525-32. Disparate
patterns of age-related changes in lipid peroxidation in
long-lived naked mole-rats and shorter-lived mice.
Andziak B, Buffenstein R.

J Lipid Mediat Cell Signal. 1994 Mar;9(2):145-53.
Essential fatty acid-deficient diet modifies PAF levels in .
stomach and duodenum of endotoxin-treated rats. Autore
G, Cicala C, Cirino G, Maiello FM, Mascolo N, Capasso F.

Biochim Biophys Acta. 1976 Nov 19;450(2):239-51.
Modification of the Ehrlich ascites tumor cell nuclear
lipids. Awad AB, Spector AA.

Lipids. 1997 Dec;32(12):1265-70. Dietary fatty acid
profile affects endurance in rats. Ayre KJ, Hulbert AJ.
-Neoplasma. 1978;25(1):25-9. Neutral lipids in nuclei
and chromatin fraction of young and old Ehrlich ascites
tumor cells, Balint Z, Holezinger L.

Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):595-600. Free
radicals and aging. Barja G. "The degree of unsaturation
of tissue fatty acids also correlates inversely with maximum
longevity."

Br J Nutr. 2003 Apr;89(4):523-31. Influence of very
low dietary intake of marine oil on some functional
aspects of immune cells in healthy elderly people.
Bechoua S, Dubois M, Vericel E, Chapuy P, Lagarde M,
Prigent AF.

Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 1999
May-Jun;60(5-6):393-9, Does high polyunsaturated free
fatty acid level at the feto-maternal interface alter
steroid hormone message during pregnancy? Benassayag
C, Rigourd V, Mignot TM, Hassid J, Leroy MJ, Robert B,
Civel C, Grange’ G, Dailot E, Tanguy J, Nunez EA, Ferre’
F,

Int J Cancer. 1984 Oct 15;34(4):529-33. Effect of
dietary stearic acid on the genesis of spontaneous
mammary adenocarcinomas in strain A/ST mice.
Bennett AS.

Nutr Neurosci. 2010 Jun;13(3):144-50. Essential fatty
acid deficiency reduces cortical spreading depression
propagation in rats: a two-generation study. Borba JM,
et al.

J Physiol. 2004 Dec 1;561(Pt 2):499-513. Cell
swelling-induced ATP release is tightly dependent on
intracellular calcium elevations. Boudreault F, Grygorc-
zyk R,

Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1992 Mar;20(3):185-94.
Prognostic significance of tumor phosphatidylcholine
stearic acid level in breast carcinoma. Bougnoux P,
Chajes V, Lanson M, Hacene K, Body G, Couet C, Le Fioch O.

J Nutr Health Aging. 2004:8(3):163-74. Roles of
unsaturated fatty acids (especially omega-3 fatty acids)
in the brain at various ages aud during ageing, Bourre
JM.

Biochemistry (Mosc). 2010 Dec;75(12):1491-7.

’ Dietary supplementation of old rats with hydrogenated

peanut oil restores activities of mitochondrial respira-
tory complexes in skeletal muscles. Bronnikov GE,
Kulagina TP, Aripovsky AV.

Proc Nutr Soc. 2008 Feb;67(1):19-27, Gender differ-
ences in the n-3 fatty acid content of tissues. Childs CE,
Romeu-Nadal M, Burdge GC, Calder PC.

Cire Shock. 1979;6(4):333-42. Resistance of essential
fatty acid-deficient rats to endotoxic shock. Cook JA,
Wise WC, Callihan CS.

Cardiovasc Res. 2007 Jan 15;73(2):386-94. Dietary
a-3 fatty acids promote arrhythmias during acute
regional myocardial ischemia in isolated pig hearts.
Coronel R, Wilms-Schopman FJ, Den Ruijter HM, Belter-
man CN, Schumacher CA, Opthof T, Hovenier R,
Lemmens AG, Terpstra AH, Katan MB, Zock P.

Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2003 Sep;18(Supp! 1):S23-32.
The NMDA receptor antagonist memantine as a
symptomatological and neuroprotective treatment for

Alzheimer's disease: preclinical evidence. Danysz W,
Parsons CG.

Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2001
Nov;364(5):397-408. Aspects of the intercellular commu-
nication in aged hearts: effects of the gap junction
uncoupler palmitoleic acid. Dhein S, Hammerath SB.

Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2005
Mar;371(3):202-11. Antiarrhythmic and _— electro-
physiologicl effects of long-chain omega-3 polyunsatu-
rated fatity acids. Dhein 8, Michaelis B, Mohr FW.

Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2009
Apr;80(4):207-12. Fetal learning and memory: weak
associations with the early essential polyunsaturated
fatty acid status, Dirix CE, Hornstra G, Nijhuis JG.

J Nutr. 2011 Sep;i41(9):1635-42. Ingestion of (n-3)
fatty acids augments basal and platelet activating factor-
induced permeability to dextran in the rat mesenteric
vascular bed. Dombrowsky H, Lautenschlager 1, Zehetho-
fer N, Lindner B, Schultz H, Uhlig S, Frerichs {, Weiler N.

Ann Nutr Aliment. 1980;34(2):317-32. [Polyunsatu-
rated fatty acids and aging. Lipofuscins : structure,

origin and development] [Article i in French] Durand G,
Desnoyers F.

J Physiol. 1998 Mar 1;507 ( Pt 2):541-7. Arachidonic
acid increases cerebral microvascular permeability by
free radicals in single pial microvessels of the anaesthe-
tized rat, Easton AS, Fraser PA.

Biochem Mol Biol Int. 1998 Dec;46(6):1117-26.
Age-related changes in plasma and tissue fatty acid
composition in Fischer 344 rats. Engler MM, Engler MB,
Nguyen EH.

G Chir. 2008 Jan-Feb;29(1-2):51-7. [Traumatic
shock—physiopathologic aspects}. [Article in Italian}
Fabiano G, Pezzolla A, Filograna MA, Ferrarese F.

Ann Neurol 2006 Sep;60(3):346-55. Endogenous sex
hormones, cognitive decline, and future dementia in old
men. Geerlings MI, Strozyk D, Masaki K, Remaley AT,
Petrovitch H, Ross GW, White LR, Launer LJ.

Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Nov;80(5):1167-74. Docosahex-
aenoic acid concentrations are higher in women than in
men because of estrogenic effects. Giltay BY, Gooren LJ,
Toorians AW, Katan MB, Zock PL.

Vopr Pitan, 1991 Mar-Apr;(2):36-40, [Characteristics
of actual nutrition of the tong-lived population of
Azerbaijan] [Article in Russian] Grigorov luG, Kozlovs-

kaia SG, Semes'ko TM, Asadov ShA.
Ann Nutr Metab. 2007;51(5):433-8. Three-year
tracking of fatty acid composition of plasma phospholip-
ids in healthy children. Guerra A, Demmelmair H,
Toschke AM, Koletzko B.

Lab Invest. 1976 Feb;34(2):216-22, The effects of long
chain free fatty acids on human neatrophil function and
structure. Hawley HP, Gordon GB.

Am J Clin Nutr. 1989 Feb;49(2):301-S. Linolefe acid
and linolenic acid: effect on permeability properties of
cultured endothelial cell monolayers. Hennig B, Watkins
BA.

Mol Cell Biol. 1981 Oct;1(10):939-48. Effects of free
fatty acids on the organization of cytoskeletal elements
in lymphocytes. Hoover RL, Fujiwara K, Klausner RD,
Bhalla DK, Tucker R, Karnovsky MJ.

Biochim Biophys Acta, 1992 Mar 26;1113(1):71-133.
Cardiolipins and biomembrane function. Hoch FL.

Sci STKE. 2002 Sep 17;2002(150):re13. Nuclear lipid
signaling. Irvine RF.

Kidney Int. 2002 Nov;62(5):1628-37. Urinary free
fatty acids bound to albumin aggravate tubulointersti-
tial damage. Kamijo A, Kimura K, Sugaya T, Yamanouchi
M, Hase H, Kaneko T, Hirata Y, Goto A, Fujita T, Omata
M.

_Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2004
Feb'137(2):357-64. Saturated fatty acids suppress
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release from rat
anterior pituitary cells in vitro. Katoh K, Asari M,
Ishiwata H, Sasaki Y, Obara Y.

Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 2002
Nov;67(5):303-8. The effect of omega-3 fatty acids on
Ca-ATPase in rat cerebral cortex. Kearns SD, Haag M.

Lipids. 2008 Sep;43(9):813-27. Dietary n-3 HUFA
affects mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation capacity
and susceptibility to oxidative stress in Atlantic salmon.
Kjaer MA, TodorceviAt M, Torstensen BE, Vegusdal A,
Ruyter B.

J Biol Chem. 1996 Dec 20;271(51):32722-8. Synergy
by secretory phospholipase A2 and glutamate on induc-
ing cell death and sustained-arachidonic acid metabolic
changes in primary cortical neuronal cultures. Kolko M,
DeCoster MA, de Turco EB, Bazan NG.

Biochem Pharmacol. 1993 Sep 1;46(5):897-904.
Effects of oleoyl-CoA on the activity and functioual state
of UDP-glucuronosy!transferase. Kremery M, Zakim D.

Lipids. 1991 Jun;26(6):472-8. Study on the lipid
composition of aging Fischer-344 rat lymphoid cells:
effect of long-term calorie restriction. Laganiere §,
Fernandes G.

Gerontology. 1993;39(1):7-18. Modulation of
membrane phospholipid fatty acid composition by age
and food restriction. Laganiere 5, Yu BP.

J Alzheimers Dis. 2003 Aug:5(4):315-22. Omega-3
fatty acids and risk of cognitive impairment and demen-
tia: Laurin D, Verreault R, Lindsay J, Dewailly E, Holub
BI,

Free Radic Biol Med. 1999 Feb;26(3-4):260-5.
Modulation of cardiac mitochondrial membrane finidity |
by age and calorie intake. Lee J, Yu BP, Herlihy JT.

Lipids Health Dis. 2006 Jan 23;5:2. Selective remod-
eling of cardiolipin fatty acids in the aged rat heart. Lee
HI, Mayette J, Rapoport SI, Bazinet RP.

Lipids Health Dis, 2006 Jan 23;5:2. Selective remod-_
eling of cardiclipin fatty acids in the aged rat heart. Lee
HJ, Mayette J, Rapoport SI, Bazinet RP.

J Neurosci. 2006 Jul 12;26(28):7502-12. Eudogenous
alpha-synuclein is induced by valproic acid through
histone deacetylase inhibition aud participates in neuro-
protection against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.
Leng Y, Chuang DM.

Cire Shock. 1990 Jun;31(Q):159-70. Resistance of
essential fatty acid-deficient rats to endotoxin-induced
increases in vascular pernteability. Li EJ, Cook JA,
Spicer KM, Wise WC, Rokach J, Halushka PV.

Drug Metab Dispos. 2002 May;30(5):531-3. Glucu-
ronidation of the dietary fatty acids, phytanic acid and
docosahexaenoic acid, by human
UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. Little JM, Williams L, Xu
J, Radominska-Pandya A.

Acta Neuropathol. 1989;78(1):16-21. Immunohisto-
chemical localization of intracellular plasma proteins in
the human central nervous system. Liu HM, Atack JR,
Rapoport SI.

J Neurochem. 1984 Apr;42(4):961-8. Turnover rates
of the molecular species of ethanolamine plasmatogen of
rat brain. Masuzawa Y, Sugiura T, Ishima Y, Waku K.

Psychoneurcendocrinology. 2008 Nov 27. Gender
differences in rat erythrocyte and brain docosahexae-
noic acid composition: Role of ovarian hormones and
dietary omega-3 fatty acid composition. McNamata RK,
Able J, Jandacek R, Rider T, Tso P.

J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2005
Nov 15;827(1):88-93. Suppression of murine cerebral
¥2-isoprostanes and F4-neuroprostanes from excitotoxic-
ity and innate immune response in vivo by alpha- or
gamma-tocopherol. Milatovic-2;VanRollins M, Li K,
Montine KS, Montine TJ.

Exp Gerontol. 2007 Nov;42(11):1053-62. Membrane
phospholipid composition may contribute to exceptional
lougevity of the naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus
glaber); a comparative study using shotgun lipidomics.
Mitchell TW, Buffenstein R, Hulbert AJ.

J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2001 Nov;299(2):638-44.
Dietary saturated fatty acids reverse inflammatory and
fibrotic changes in rat liver despite continued ethanol
administration. Nanji AA, Jokelainen K, Tipoe GL,
Rahemtulla A, Dannenberg AJ.

Ophthalmic Res. 1999;31(4):273-9. Age-related
accumulation of free polyunsaturated fatty acids in
human retina. Nourooz-Zadeh J, Pereira P.

Biochim Biophys Acta. 2000 Aug 24;1487(1):1-14.
Fish oil diet affects on oxidative senescence of red blood
cells linked to degeneration of spleen cells in mice.
Oarada M, Furukawa H, Majima T, Miyazawa T.

Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2006 Jul
14;345(4):1649-56. Fatty acyl-CoA as an endogenous
activator of UDP-glucuronosyltransferases. Okamura K,
Ishii Y, Ikushiro §, Mackenzie PI, Yamada H.

Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Jan 10;112(3):169-83. Double
bond content of phospholipids and lipid peroxidation
‘negatively correlate with maximum longevity in the
heart of mammals. Pamplona R, Portero-Otin M, Ruiz C,

Gredilla R, Herrero A, Barja G.

10

Biochim Biophys Acta 1988 Aug 17;935(1):79-86,
Effect of hyperthyroidism on the transport of pyruvate
in rat-heart mitochondria. Paradies G, Ruggiero FM

Arch Biochem Biophys 1989 Mar;269(2):595-602.
Decreased activity of the pyruvate translocator and
changes in the lipid composition in heart mitochondria
from hypothyroid rats. Paradies G, Ruggiero FM

FEBS Lett. 1997 Apr 7;406(1-2):136-8.
Age-dependent decline in the cytochrome ¢ oxidase
activity in rat heart mitochondria: role of cardiolipin.
Paradies G, Ruggiero FM, Petrosillo G, Quagliariello E.

Bur J Biochem. 1978 Feb 1;83(1):235-43. The role of
serum albumin in the uptake of fatty acids by cultured
cardiac cells from chick embryo, Paris S, Samuel D,
Jacques Y, Gache C, Franchi A, Ailhaud G.

Br J Urol. 1990 Mar;65(3):268-70. Erythrocyte
stearic to oleic acid ratio in prostatic carcinoma, Persad
RA, Gillatt DA, Heinemann D, Habib NA, Smith PY.

Atherosclerosis. 1983 Jan;46(1):21-8. Increased ratio
of plasma free fatty acids to albumin during normal
aging aud in patients with coronary heart disease.
Pickart L. ;

J Cell Physiol. 2010 Nov;225(3):829-36. Role of
calcium and ROS in cell death induced by polyunsatu-
rated fatty acids in murine thymocytes. Prasad A, Bloom
MS, Carpenter DO.

J Nutr. 1984 Feb;114(2):255-62. The effect of essen-
tial fatty acid deficiency on basal respiration and
function of liver mitochondria in rats. Rafael J, Patzelt J,
SchAufer H, Elmadfa I.

Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. .1993
Jan;48(1):i 1-6. The role of free fatty acids in regulating
the tissue availability and synthesis of sex steroids. Reed
MJ, Dunkley SA, Singh A, Thomas BS, Haines AP,
Cruickshank JK. . ,

J Biol Chem. 2011 Jul 29;286(30):2693 1-42. Unsatu-
rated fatty acids drive disintegrin and metalloproteinase
(ADAM)-dependent cell adhesion, proliferation, and
migration by modulating membrane fluidity. Reiss K,
Cornelsen I, Husmann M, Gimpl G, Bhakdi S.

J Neurochem. 1982 May;38(5):1255-60. Effects of
free fatty acids on synaptosomal amino acid uptake
systems. Rhoads DE, Kaplan MA, Peterson NA, Raghupa-
thy E.

Biochem J. 1967 Sep;104(3):1040-7. Characteriza-
tion and metabolism of ovine foetal lipids. Scott TW,
Setchell BP, Bassett JM.

Cell Death Differ. 2004 Dec;1! Suppl 2:8172-80.
Water induces autocrine stimulation of tumor cell
killing through ATP release and P2 receptor binding.
Selzner N, Selzner M, Graf R, Ungethuem U, Fitz JG,
Clavien PA. ;

Pol J Pharmacol. 2003 Jul-Aug;55(4):603-11. Glycine
modulates hepatic lipid accumulation in alcohol-induced
liver injury. Senthilkumar R, Viswanathan P, Nalini N.

Reprod Nutr Dev. 2005 Sep-Oct;45(5):633-46.
Regulation of intracellular calcium levels by

11

polyunsaturated fatty acids, arachidonic acid and
docosahexaenoic acid, in astrocytes: possible involtye-
ment of phospholipase A2. Sergeeva M, Strokin M, Reiser
G. .
Neuron. 2003 Feb 20;37(4):583-95. The formation of
highly soluble oligomers of alpha-syauclein is regulated
by fatty acids and enhanced in Parkinson's disease.
Sharon R, Bar-Joseph I, Frosch MP, Walsh DM, Hamilton
JA, Selkoe DJ.

Zygote. 1993 Aug;1(3):215-23. Non-plasmalemmal
localisation of the major ganglioside in sea urchin eggs.
Shogomori H, Chiba K, Kubo H, Hoshi M.

Invasion Metastasis. 1995;15(3-4):144-55. Stearate
inhibits human tumor cell invasion. Singh RK, Hardy
RW, Wang MH, Williford J, Gladson CL, McDonald JM,
Siegal GP.

Physiol Bohemoslov. 1990;39(2):125-34. Proportion
of individual fatty acids in the non-esterified (free) fatty
acid(FFA) fraction in the serum of laboratory rats of
different ages. Smidova L, Base J, Mourek J, Cechova I.

Exp Gerontol. 2005 Apr;40(4):335-43. Unsaturated
fatty acids intake and all-causes mortality: a 8.5-year
follow-up of the Italian Longitudinal Study on Aging.
Solfrizzi V, D'Tntrono A, Colacicco AM, Capurso C, Palas-
ciano R, Capurso S,Torres F, Capurso A, Panza F.

J Pharm Biomed Anal 2001 Mar:24(5-6):1157-62.
Bioanalysis of age-related changes of lipid metabolism in
nonagenarians, Solichova D, Juraskova B, Blaha V,
Bratova M, Kusalova M, Zdansky P, Zadak Z.

Biochim Biophys Acta. 1997 Apr 21;1345(3):317-26.
The preferential mobilisation of C20 and C22 polyun-
saturated fatty acids from the adipose tissue of the chick
embryo: potential implications regarding the provision
of essential fatty acids for neural development. Speake
BK, Cerolini 8, Maldjian A, Noble RC.

J Nutr. 2003 Nov;133(11):3664-9. Fish intake is
positively associated with breast cancer incidence rate.
Stripp C, Overvad K, Christensen J, Thomsen BL, Olsen A,
Moller S, Tjonneland A.

Br J Pharmacol. 2003 Jul;139(5):1014-22. Docosahex-
aenoic acid and arachidonic acid release in rat brain
astrocytes is mediated by two separate isoforms of
phospholipase A2 and is differently regulated by cyclic
AMP and Ca2+, Strokin M, Sergeeva M, Reiser G.

Aging Clin Exp Res. 2004 Dec;16(6):425-31. Effects
of dietary restriction on age-related changes in the
phospholipid fatty acid composition of various rat
tissues, Tamburini I, Quartacci MF, Izzo R, Bergamini E.
"The most abundant PUFAs, 20:4(-6) and 22:6(n-3),
either remained the same or increased with age."

Am J Physiol. 1989 Jan;256(1 Pt 1):G178-87.
Saturated fatty acid diet prevents radiation-

associated decline in intestinal uptake. Thomson AB,

Keelan M, Lam T, Cheeseman CI, Walker K,
Clandinin MT.

J Surg Res. 2006 Sep;135(1):68-75. Inflammation
effects on the electrical properties of atrial tissue and
inducibility of postoperative atrial fibrillation. Tselen-
takis EV, Woodford E, Chandy J, Gaudette GR, Saltman
AE.

Biochem Pharmacol, 2004 Jan  1;67(1):191-9.
Evidence that unsaturated fatty acids are potent inhibi-
tors of renal UDP-glucuronosyitransferases (UGT):
kinetic studies using human kidney cortical microsomes
and recombinant UGTIA9 and UGT2B7. Tsoutsikos P,
Miners JO, Stapleton A, Thomas A, Sallustio BC, Knights
KM.

Aging Cell, 2007 Feb;6(1):15-25. N-3 polyunsatu-
rated fatty acids impair lifespan but have no role for
metabolism. Valencak TG, Ruf T,

Biochim Biophys Acta. 1990 Jul 16;1045(2):128-34,
Lipoproteins secreted by cultured rat hepatocytes
contain the antioxidant 1-alk-1-enyl-2-
acylglycerophosphoethanolamine. Vance JE.

Biol Chem. 2003 Oct 10;278(41):40020-5, Increased
vesicle recycling in response to osmotic cell swelling.
Cause and consequence of hypotonicity-provoked ATP
release. van der Wijk T, Tomassen SF, Houtsmuller AB,
de Jonge HR, Tilly BC.

Endocrinology. 1992 Dec;131(6):2697-702. Glutamic
acid decarboxylase messenger ribonucleic acid is
regulated by estradiol and progesterone in the hippo-
campus, Weiland NG.

IUBMB Life. 2008,9e7360(9):575-90. Calcium tons in
neuronal degeneration. Wojda U, Salinska E, Kuznicki J.

Prog Clin Biol Res 1983;111:89-109, Energy metabo-
lism in trauma and sepsis: the role of fat, Wolfe RR,
Shaw JH, Durkot MJ

Biochem Pharmacol. 1997 Feb 21;53(4):561-70.
Inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyitransferase activity by
fatty acyl-CoA. Kinetic studies and structure-activity

- relationship. Yamashita A, Nagatsuka T, Watanabe M,

Kondo H, Sugiura T, Waku K.

Neurotoxicology. 2007 Nov;28(6):1220-9. Detrimen-
tal effects of post-treatment with fatty acids on brain
injury in ischemic rats. Yang DY, Pan HC, Yen YJ,
Wang CC, Chuang YH, Chen SY, Lin SY, Liao SL, Raung
SL, Wu CW, Chou MC, Chiang AN, Chen CJ.

J Org Chem. 2007 Dec 7;72(25):9698-703, Asymmet-
ric synthesis of 14-Adt-neuroprostane: hunting for a
suitable biomarker for neurodegenerative diseases.
Zanoni G, Brunoldi EM, Porta A, Vidari G. "Since
isoprostanes are considered as golden standards for oxidative
stress, and due to the specificity of neuroprostanes for this condi- ©
tion in neurons and their relation with Alzheimer’s and Parkin-
son's diseases, they are envisioned to be suitable biomarkers for

these pathologies,"
SESH SREDERES EES REP READ AE SADA NE EL ERT
