Ray Peat's Newsletter

“To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete.” --R. Buckminster Fuller

Copyright 2013

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405

March 2013

Not for renublication without written permission.

Hormones, energy, aging, and
endogenous carbon monoxide

Our tissues produce carbon monoxide as
a normal part of cell breakdown. All kinds of
stress that damage tissues imcrease its
formation.

Carbon monoxide increases with aging,
and increases stress hormones.

The enzyme which produces carbon
monoxide is induced by carbon monoxide.

Carbon monoxide can inhibit the oxida-
tive production of energy, and can increase
the rate of non-oxidative, growth supporting
energy production.

Carbon monoxide can either stimulate
tissue growth or cause atrophy, and can
either inhibit or exacerbate inflammation,
depending on the surrounding conditions.

Inhibiting its production or accelerating
its removal can have therapeutic effects.

In the 1970s, the idea that senescence was a
genetically "programmed" function was very
popular--a newer form of the doctrine of the
essential corruptibility of matter, of Freud's death
instinct, and of Hayflick's numerical limit of cells’
ability to replicate.

W.D. Denckla's version of programmed aging
proposed that the pituitary gland was the agent of
this programmed aging. He based his idea on the
observation that when animals were kept on a
semi-starvation diet, starting before puberty, their
puberty was delayed and they lived longer than
normal, and on later studies that showed that when
animals' pituitary glands were removed before
puberty, they lived much longer than normal, and

all of their tissues and systems aged at a much
slower rate. The implication was that if the gland
is present and causes aging, its evolutionary
purpose is to cause aging, as well as the other
processes such as reproduction.

The particular function that Denckla focused
on as ari index of aging was oxygen consumption,
which decreases by more than 70% between
puberty and old age. He showed that the decrease
of oxygen consumption was much less when the
pituitary gland was removed, if the animal was
given the amount of thyroid hormone that it
would normally produce. He found some fairly
specific pituitary extracts that decreased oxygen
consumption, inhibiting the effects of the thyroid
hormone, but he never identified a particular
pituitary hormone as the antirespiratory aging
hormone, or the mechanisms responsible for the
extract's effects.

The pituitary's functions are largely directed
toward activating glandular tissues, and in doing
that it stimulates cell division in the various
glands. It's accepted that dividing cells revert to
the non-oxidative metabolism, but the mechanism
by which the pituitary hormones stimulate cell
division isn't generally recognized.

The pituitary hormones, ACTH, FSH, LH,
TSH, prolactin, growth hormone, POMC and
MSH (melanocyte stimulating hormone) stimulate
the production of carbon monoxide in the cells
that they stimulate, by activating the enzyme
heme oxygenase. This enzyme degrades the heme
molecule, which is released from hemoglobin and
other proteins in injured tissues, and which in the
free state is toxic (Kumar and Bandyopadhyay,
2005). In degrading heme, this enzyme releases
free iron atoms and biliverdin, as well as carbon
monoxide. Although free iron atoms can cause
harmful oxidation, biliverdin, and the bilirubin

__|

that's produced from it, can have beneficial
antioxidant effects. :

Cells get their energy from the "flow" of
electrons from molecules such as sugar and fat,
which function as chemical reductants, ultimately
to oxygen, which is reduced by them; reduction is
the opposite of oxidation, so that's just another
way of saying that the fuel molecules are oxidized
by oxygen. During cellular stress, such as the
release of free heme or free iron, the reducing
energy can be misdirected in harmful ways,
leading to the cell's death, unless there are
molecules, "antioxidants," which can interrupt
those processes. Sulfur-containing molecules, in
solution (glutathione and other sulfhydryls and
disulfides) and sulfur amino acids in the cell's
protein structure, are energetically in balance with
the flow of energy, from fuel to oxygen, and they
act as a buffer or stabilizer of the degree of
reduction-oxidation, the redox state. If the sulfur
system becomes either too oxidized or too
reduced, the cell dies.

Molecules such as vitamin E and vitamin C
and bilirubin function as protective antioxidants,
but they don't interfere with the oxidations of the
crucial respiratory enzyme, cytochrome oxidase.
Carbon monoxide has the ability, in certain situa-
tions, to function as a protective antioxidant, even
while it may be inhibiting the respiratory function,
but those situations are very limited. For example,
in an atmosphere of 100% oxygen, carbon monox-
ide protects the lungs from oxygen's otherwise
lethal effects, while the high concentration of
oxygen protects the respiratory enzyme from
complete inhibition’ by the carbon monoxide. In
situations of cell excitation, it can shift the cell's
balance toward reduction, by limiting oxidation,
creating functional hypoxia

Hypoxia stimulates many cellular reactions,
including cell division, in which the cell's struc-
tural proteins shift toward a more reduced state of
their sulfur atoms. I think it's likely that the
antioxidative, antirespiratory, effect of carbon
monoxide produced by the enzyme, heme oxyge-
nase, which is activated by the pituitary hormones,
is responsible for the activation of cell division in
the various glands and other tissues activated by

the pituitary.

$$,

From the 1930s until the early 1960s, there
was considerable interest in the factors that
activated or inhibited cell division by shifting the
redox balance of the cell toward a more reduced
state, for example by using cyanide or pure carbon
dioxide to inhibit the respiratory enzyme, or by
treating the tissue with glutathione (GSH) or other
reduced sulfur compounds. Blocking the respira-
tory enzyme allows the energy of glycolysis to
increase the ratio of NADH to NAD, and the
NADH can increase the ratio of reduced
glutathione, GSH, to the oxidized disulfide,
GSSG.

In the 1950s, Daniel Mazia and Katsuma Dan
demonstrated that as cells prepare to divide, with
the formation of the mitotic spindle, there is a
sudden increase in the reduced sulfur (sulfhydryl,
SH) in the cell, and that cell division could be
stopped by interfering with the reduction of the
sulfur group. Albert Szent-Gyorgyi and Francis
Knock believed that the regulation of the sulfur
system was a reasonable approach to controlling
cancer. Warburg and Szent-Gyorgyi viewed
growth and cell division as the basic condition of
life, and that cancer was simply a loss of the
ability to redirect energy from growth to organiza-
tion, for which a more oxidized state of the cell
was necessary. By the 1970s, it was widely recog-
nized that cancer had a very effective antioxidant
protection against destruction by oxidizing agents.

However, in the 1960s, increased interest in
the membrane doctrine and DNA research
suddenly displaced more traditional types of cell
biology and biochemistry. For the membrane
doctrine, the material between the | genetic
substance in the nucleus and the external
membrane was a solution of molecules dissolved
in water, in which things happened by random
diffusion. Learning the Michaelis-Menten
equation that describes enzyme actions in a test-
tube had the psychological effect of making
people assume that random diffusion also
governed processes in cells. The coherent chemis-
try and function of the proteins of the cell, such as
could be seen in the mitotic spindle, presented a
very different model of the cell. In 1971 the War
on Cancer reinforced the molecular genetics
approach to understanding cell biology. For the

ee
rest of the century, interactions of the environment
with cellular metabolism were of little interest
except when they affected the genes and the
membranes.

In the last few years there has been a surge of
interest in endogenously produced carbon monox-
ide, probably motivated by the idea that if it's an
endogenous substance, it presents opportunities
for the pharmaceutical industry. In certain circum-
stances, its antimetabolic or anti-inflammatory
effects can seem protective in ways that could be
therapeutically useful, but even those limited
benefits have been disputed (Nutter, et al., 1994);
the biliverdin and bilirubin produced along with
carbon monoxide by heme oxygenase probably
account for most of the potentially useful anti-
inflammatory effects that have been described. In
situations of deadly stress, the ability of increased
levels of carbon monoxide to prevent cell death is
what makes its involvement in cancer so interest-
ing. The complexity of the balance influenced by
carbon monoxide (Wagener, et al., 2003) seems to
be routinely ignored.

The phosphorylation system gets most of the
attention in studying cell regulatory systems, but
some systems that are regulated by phosphoryla-
tion are also regulated by the cell's redox state.
(Other regulatory systems include pH, the hydra-
tion potential, osmolarity, ionic strength, and
electrical fields.) An important factor in the
regulation of cell functions is a complex of
proteins called NF-kappaB, which activates
processes of immunity, inflammation, and cell
survival. Sulfhydryl reduction is involved in its

activation. Ethyl alcohol, which tends to shift the °

redox balance toward increased NADH and GSH,
activates NF-kappaB, and this can be protective
for cells in some situations (Ward, et al., 1996),
but it's this activation that makes alcohol harmful
to the liver, contributing to inflammation, fibrosis
and cancer.

Alcohol's liver toxicity is associated with an
increased reductive state, higher NADH/NAD,
and its toxicity is prevented by agents such as
fructose, which protectively lower the
NADH/NAD ratio (Khan and O'Brien, 1995,
Niknahad, et al., 1995). The reductive activation
of iron is an important factor in the toxicity in this

case (Khan and O'Brien, 1995). The fact that
fructose can protect against cyanide toxicity
(Niknahad, et al., 1994), seems likely to be
another illustration of the importance of the redox
balance.

Increased estrogen can exacerbate liver
damage caused by alcohol, by increasing NFkap-
paB; testosterone has a protective effect, by
decreasing NFkappaB (Lee, et al., 2012).

Carbon monoxide activates NF-kappaB, and
this is closely related to the ability of cancer cells
to avoid the normal dissolution of greatly stressed
cells, i.e., to their "immortalization." Cancer's
unique antioxidant capacity and its reluctance to
undergo the normal apoptotic dissolution when
it's unable to participate constructively in normal
tissues could be explained by its increased expres-
sion of heme oxygenase and its production of
carbon monoxide.

Several things in the medical culture divert
attention from these associations. First, antioxi-
dants tend to be considered as necessarily benign,
including the endogenous antioxidants that are
produced in response to stress. Second, estrogen
has a special status in the medical culture, and
estrogen can not only induce NFkappaB and heme
oxygenase, but those can also increase the forma-
tion of carbon monoxide. There is a historical
reluctance to consider that "antioxidants" and
estrogen could be intrinsically involved in degen-
erative processes, including cancer.

Carbon monoxide has the properties ascribed
to Denckla's "death hormone," being increased
directly by pituitary hormones (and also by the
hormones stimulated by the pituitary), and being
able to decrease oxygen consumption. It also
seems to cause exactly the changes that Warburg
investigated in cancer cells, and attributed to a
"respiratory defect." Cancer cells might originate
among old cells with a very low metabolic and
respiratory rate, but as they develop the properties
of cancer they may begin to metabolize at a very
high rate (though not necessarily). Their "respira-
tory defect" is that oxygen is no longer able to
inhibit glycolysis, allowing them to consume
glucose and amino acids at a continuously high
rate. Warburg believed that cancerization was an
adaptive survival strategy of cells to escape the

factors interfering with respiration and leading
toward atrophy and death.

An enzyme that activates glycolysis, PFKFB4,
is normally increased by oxygen deprivation and
the hypoxia inducible factor (HIF), but it is also
increased by heme oxygenase (Li, et al., 2012).
Gluconeogenesis is normally inhibited by heme,
which is removed by heme oxygenase. Lactic acid
produced by glycolysis activates an enzyme
(thioredoxin) that increases cellular sulfhydryl
reduction, and increases HIF and also stimulates
the formation of new blood vessels by inducing
VEGF (Milovanova, et al., 2008), the permeability
and growth factor which is essential for the
growth of cancer, and which is induced by heme
oxygenase. While interfering with the functions of
mitochondria, heme oxygenase also stimulates the
growth of new mitochondria, along with new
blood vessels.

Besides slowing the decrease of oxygen
consumption, removing the pituitary gland has
also been shown to have beneficial effects on the
extracellular material. The presence of the pitui-
tary gland accelerates the aging (thickening,
hardening, crosslinking) of collagen in the extra-
cellular matrix, and several factors, including
lactic acid and estrogen, contribute to that. Very
little effort has been made to investigate the
factors involved in extracellular aging, relative to
its importance for understanding the aging process
and the degenerative diseases. Since oxygen and
nutrients reach cells by diffusing through the
extracellular matrix, a thickened matrix can
contribute to the tissue atrophy from which some
cells emerge as cancer cells. Recent studies. have
confirmed the role of collagen crosslinking in
promoting cancer growth and invasiveness (Baker,
et al., 2013).

Stresses activate adaptive hormones,
especially cortisol, by acting on the hypothalamus
to increase CRH, corticotropin release hormone,
to activate the pituitary to release ACTH, which
activates the adrenals. Carbon monoxide is one of
the factors, produced by stress, which activates the
secretion of CRH (Navarra, et al., 2001)

Intense exercise increases the production of
carbon monoxide temporarily, but regular activity,
like calorie restriction (Morgan, et al., 1999;

Usuki, et al., 2004; Kang, et al., 2005; Mahlke, et
al., 2011), seems to limit its increase with aging.

The level of heme oxygenase increases with
aging (Iijima, et al., 1999; Usuki, et al., 2004;
Kang, et al., 2005; Hirose, et al., 2003;), reducing
the amount of heme available for necessary
enzyme functions (Bitar and Shapiro, 1987). The
heme synthetic pathway is an energy drain on
cells (Atamna, 2004); in breast cancer, for
example, which has a high heme oxygenase activ-
ity, the heme pathway is 20 times more active
than normal (Navone, et al., 1990). Carbon
monoxide activates the heme synthetic pathway
(by way of erythropoietin), in another potential
vicious circle (Cronje, et al., 2004).

The overproduction of heme oxygenase and
carbon monoxide in cancer (Al-Owais, et al.,
2012) might be dismissed as an effect, rather than
a cause, of cancer, except for its role in making
cancer cells resistant to natural cell dissolution,
apoptosis (Liu, et al., 2004; Banerjee, 2012),
chemotherapy (Miyake, et al., 2010), and radia-
tion (Zhang, et al., 2011), and the fact that inhibit-
ing heme oxygenase inhibits cancer growth (Fang,
et al., 2012).

Heme oxygenase is induced by all kinds of
cancer promoters--viruses (Marinissen, et al.,
2006; Martin, et al., 2007), radiation, heavy
metals, prostaglandins, estrogen, PUFA, and
reactive fragments of fatty acids such as acrolein
(a toxic 3-carbon fragment) and HNE (a toxic
9-carbon fragment).

Increasing the activity of heme oxygenase can
produce harmful effects, and inhibiting its produc-
tion can, according to animal. studies, produce
beneficial effects, for example stopping the
growth of cancer, or alleviating seizures (Parfe-
nova, et al., 2004) and symptoms related to liver
cirrhosis (Carter, et al., 2002; Tieppo, et al.,
2009).

The products of heme oxygenase can cause
DNA damage, meeting the conventional require-
ment for being considered a carcinogen (Ishikawa,
2010), but more plausible metabolic routes to
cancer have been suggested (Polo, et al., 1992).

Many experiments with cells and tissues have
demonstrated clearly that light causes carbon
monoxide to be released from the respiratory

pigment, but there has been little application of
this principle to humans. Most of the signs of
stress reach their peak in the early morning,
following the same diurnal curve as cortisol. In
prolonged darkness, great changes in mitochon-
drial shape and function have been demonstrated.
It's likely that at least part of this is caused by
carbon monoxide, since its peak formation is in
the early morning, and its lowest rate of formation
is in the early evening (Levitt, et al., 1994). Blue
light and ultraviolet light increase its formation,
but orange and red light, which penetrate most
deeply into the tissues, can release it from the
respiratory pigment.

Several things associated with aging involve
some specific effects of heme oxygenase, such as
incontinence of the anal and urethral sphincters,
malfunction of the esophageal sphincter, loss of
tone of the bladder (detrusor) muscle, when the
enzyme is increased in those muscles, and reduced
curiosity, when the enzyme is increased in the
brain. Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease,
and schizophrenia all involve increased heme
oxygenase in the brain, and in Alzheimer's disease
the enzyme is associated with amyloid plaques.
These conditions involve some degree of edema in
the brain, and the inhibition of heme oxygenase
has been found to reduce edema following brain
injury (Sharma, et al., 2003). Heme oxygenase
increases the leakiness of capillaries (by increas-
ing VEGF), and the presence of heme increases
the local production of heme oxygenase. Multiple
sclerosis is known to involve disturbance of the
capillaries in the brain, and increased heme oxyge-
nase. The - frequency of microhemorrhages
throughout the body increases with age, along
with VEGF and heme oxygenase (Cullen, et al.,
2005, 2006). It has been suggested that amyloid is
produced as a sealant for the brain's capillaries,
compensating for the increased leakiness
(Atwood, et al., 2003). The amyloid-beta induces
a proteolytic enzyme that degrades the extracellu-
lar matrix, increasing the risk of larger hemor-
rhages (Lee, et al., 2003).

Caffeine, vitamin E, and niacinamide are
known to reduce the activity of heme oxygenase.
Sodium bicarbonate taken before strenuous
exercise reduces the expression of heme

oxygenase (Kirk, et al., 2012) and improves
endurance. A severe deficiency of vitamin Bl
increases the expression of heme oxygenase.
Testosterone can restore a youthful balance
between heme and heme oxygenase, increasing
heme, decreasing heme oxygenase (Bitar and
Weiner, 1983). In newborn animals,
D-penicillamine (an amino acid that is fairly safe
to use as a heavy metal chelator) has lowered
heme oxygenase (Oroszlan, et al., 1983).
Apigenin, a chemical in guavas and oranges, with
anti-inflammatory effects, inhibits heme oxyge-
nase (Abate, et al., 2005). Avoiding exposure to
toxic heavy metals, minimizing dietary polyun-
saturated fats, and being in brightly lighted
environments as much as possible, will help to
avoid unnecessary carbon monoxide formation.

REFERENCES

Free Radic Biol Med. 2005 Sep 15;39(6):711-8. Apigenin decreases
hemin-mediated heme oxygenase-1 induction. Abate A, Yang G, Wong
RJ, Schroder H, Stevenson DK, Dennery PA.
J Biol Chem. 2012 Jul 13;287(29):24754-64, Carbon monoxide mediates
the anti-apoptotic effects of heme oxygenase-1 in medulloblastoma
DAOY cells via K+ channel inhibition. Al-Owais MM, Scragg JL, Dallas
ML, Boycott HE, Warburton P, Chakrabarty A, BoyleJP, Peers C.

Gastroenterology. 2005 Feb;128(2):328-33. Carboxyhemoglobin levels
in cirrhotic patients with and without hepatopulmonary syndrome.
Arguedas MR, Drake BB, Kapoor A, Fallon MB.
Brain Res Brain Res Rev. 2003 Sep;43(1):164-78. Cerebrovascular
requirement for sealant, anti-coagulant and remodeling molecules
that allow for the maintenance of vascular integrity and blood supply.
Atwood CS, Bowen RL, Smith MA, Perry G.
J Biol Chem. 2012 Sep 14;287(38):32113-23. Heme oxygenase-1
promotes survival of renal cancer cells through modulation of apopto-
sis- and autophagy-regulating molecules. Banerjee P, Basu A, Wegiel B,
Otterbein LE, Mizumura K, Gasser M, Waaga-Gasser AM, Choi AM, Pal
S.
Mech Ageing Dev. 1987 Apr;38(2):189-97. Aberration of heme and
hemoprotein in aged female rats. Bitar MS, Shapiro BH.
Mech Ageing Dev. 1983 Nov-Dec;23(3-4):285-96. Modification of
age-induced changes in heme and hemoproteins by testosterone in
male rats. Bitar M, Weiner M.
AJP - Lung Physiol August 1, 2002 vol. 283 no. 2 L346-L353. Regulation
of heme oxygenase-1 by nitric oxide during hepatopulmonary
syndrome. Carter EP, Hartsfield CL, Miyazono M., Jakkula M., Morris
MG Jr., McMurtry IF.
Free Radic Biol Med. 2004 Dec 1;37(11):1802-12. Carbon monoxide
actuates O(2)-limited heme degradation in the rat brain. Cronje FJ,
Carraway MS, Freiberger JJ, Suliman HB, Piantadosi CA.
Neurobiol Aging. 2006 Dec;27(12):1786-96. Microvascular pathology in
the aging human brain: evidence that senile plaques are sites of micro-
haemorrhages. Cullen KM, Kocsi Z, Stone J.
J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2005 Dec;25(12):1656-67. Pericapillary
haem-rich deposits: evidence for microhaemorrhages in aging human
cerebral cortex. Cullen KM, Kocsi Z, Stone J.

Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2012 Oct 1;186(7):648-56.Carbon monoxide
induces cardiac arrhythmia via induction of the late Na+ current.
Dallas ML, Yang Z, Boyle JP, Boycott HE, Scragg JL, Milligan CJ, Elies
J, Duke A, Thireau J, Reboul C, Richard S, Bernus O, Steele DS, Peers C.
J Appl Physiol. 1974 Jan;36(1):49-51. Cyclic variation of rate of carbon
monoxide production in normal women. Delivoria-Papadopoulos M,
Coburn RF, Forster RE.

|

Arthritis Rheum. 2005 Oct;52(10):3230-8. Influence of heme oxygenase
1 modulation on the progression of murine collagen-induced arthritis.
Devesa I, Ferrandiz ML, Terencio MC, Joosten LA, van den Berg WB,
Alcaraz MJ. "... treatment with SnPP, which inhibits HO-1, exerts
prophylactic and therapeutic effects."

Oral Dis. 2011 Apr;17(3):252-7. The heme oxygenase system and oral
diseases. Fan W, Huang F, Zhu X, Li D, Fu S, He H.

Eur J Cancer Prev. 1998 Feb;7(1):69-76. Hepatic enzymatic metabolism
alterations and oxidative stress during the onset of carcinogenesis:
protective role of alpha-tocopherol. Gerez E, Caballero F, Vazquez E,
Polo C, Batlle AM.

Leg Med (Tokyo). 2003 Mar;5 Supp! 1:S360-6. Age-associated increases
in heme oxygenase-1 and ferritin immunoreactivity in the autopsied
brain. Hirose W, Ikematsu K, Tsuda R.

Neurosci Lett. 1999 Aug 20;271(2):113-6. Expanded expression of heme
oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in the hypothalamic median eminence of aged as
compared with young rats: an immunocytochemical study. lijima N,
Tamada Y, Hayashi S, Tanaka M, Ishihara A, Hasegawa M, Ibata Y.

Mol Nutr Food Res. 2010 Aug;54(8):1182-91. Heme induces DNA
damage and hyperproliferation of colonic epithelial cells via hydrogen
peroxide produced by heme oxygenase: a possible mechanism of heme-
induced colon cancer. Ishikawa S, Tamaki S, Ohata M, Arihara K, Itoh
M.

Curr Neurovasc Res. 2005 Apr;2(2):133-9. Increased pulmonary heme
oxygenase-1 and delta-aminolevulinate synthase expression in
monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension. Iwasaki T, Takahashi
T, Shimizu H, Ohmori E, Morimoto T, Kajiya M, Takeuchi M, Morita K,
Akagi R, Kajiya F.

Biogerontology. 2005;6(1):27-37. The effect of age and calorie restric-
tion on HIF-1-responsive genes in aged liver. Kang MJ, Kim HJ, Kim
HK, Lee JY, Kim DH, Jung KJ, Kim KW, Baik HS, Yoo MA, Yu BP,
Chung HY.

Amino Acids. 2012 Oct 23. The influence of exogenous carbohydrate
provision and pre-exercise alkalosis on the heat shock protein response
to prolonged interval cycling. Peart DJ, Kirk RJ, Madden LA, Siegler JC,
Vince RV.

Toxicol Lett. 2005 Jul 4;157(3):175-88. Free heme toxicity and its
detoxification systems in human. Kumar S, Bandyopadhyay U.

Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Feb 22;114(1):49-60. Age-dependent increase
of heme oxygenase-1 gene expression in the liver mediated by NFkap-
paB. Lavrovsky Y, Song CS, Chatterjee B, Roy AK.

Ann Neurol. 2003 Sep;54(3):379-82. Matrix metalloproteinase-9 and
spontaneous hemorrhage in an animal model of cerebral amyloid
angiopathy. Lee JM, Yin KJ, Hsin I, Chen 8, Fryer JD, Holtzman DM,
Hsu CY, Xu J.

Inflamm Res. 2012 Oct;61(10):1053-61. Estrogen suppresses heptatic
IkB expression during short-term alcohol exposure. Lee EG, Mickle-
Kawar BM, Reinke LA, Gallucci RM.

J Lab Clin Med. 1994 Sep;124(3):427-31. Diurnal rhythm of heme
turnover assessed by breath carbon monoxide concentrationmeasure-
ments. Levitt MD, Ellis C, Levitt DG.77.

Tohoku J. Exp Med. 2012:228(1):27-41. Coordinated expression of
6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 4 and heme oxyge-
nase 2: evidence for a regulatory link between glycolysis and heme catabo-
lism. Li B, Takeda K, Ishikawa K, Yoshizawa M, Sato M, Shibahara S,
Furuyama K.* ,

Pathobiol Aging Age Relat Dis. 2011;1. The anti-tumor effects of calorie
restriction are correlated with reduced oxidative stress in
ENU-induced gliomas. Mahlke MA, Cortez LA, Ortiz MA, Rodriguez M,
Uchida K, Shigenaga MK, Lee S, Zhang Y, Tominaga K, Hubbard GB,
Ikeno Y.

J Biol Chem. 2006 Apr 21;281(16):11332-46. Inhibition of heme
oxygenase-1 interferes with the transforming activity of the Kaposi
sarcoma herpesvirus-encoded G protein-coupled receptor. Marinissen
MJ, Tanos T, Bolés M, de Sagarra MR, Coso OA, Cuadrado A.

J Biol Chem. 2007 Nov 23;282(47):34510-24. The Galpha12/13 family
of heterotrimeric G proteins and the small GTPase RhoA link the
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpes virus G protein-coupled receptor to
heme oxygenase-1 expression and tumorigenesis. Martin MJ, Tanos T,
Garcia AB, Martin D, Gutkind JS, Coso OA, Marinissen MJ.

Cancer Sci. 2010 Jun;101(6):1409-16. Expression of heme oxygenase-1
in human leukemic cells and its regulation by transcriptional

repressor Bach1. Miyazaki T, Kirino Y, Takeno M, Samukawa S, Hama
M, Tanaka M, Yamaji S, Ueda A, Tomita N, Fujita H, Ishigatsubo Y.
Neuroscience. 1999 Mar;89(3):687-99. The mosaic of brain glial hyper-
activity during normal ageing and its attenuation by food restriction.
Morgan TE, Xie Z, Goldsmith S, Yoshida T, Lanzrein AS, Stone D,
Rozovsky I, Perry G, Smith MA, Finch CE.

J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2001 Jan;86(1):317-23. Evidence for a
functional link between the heme oxygenase-carbon monoxide
pathway and corticotropin-releasing hormone release from primary
cultures of human trophoblast cells. Navarra P, Miceli F, Tringali G,
Minici F, Pardo MG, Lanzone A, Mancuso S, Apa R.

Int J Biochem. 1990;22(12):1407-11. Heme biosynthesis in human
breast cancer—mimetic "in vitro" studies and some heme enzymic
activity levels. Navone NM, Polo CF, Frisardi AL, Andrade NE, Battle
AM.

BMC Cancer. 2008 Jul 11;8:197.Zine protoporphyrin IX, a heme
oxygenase-1 inhibitor, demonstrates potent antitumor effects but is
unable to potentiate antitumor effects of chemotherapeutics in mice.
Nowis D, Bugajski M, Winiarska M, Bil J, Szokalska A, Salwa P, Issat T,
Was H, Jozkowicz A, Dulak J, Stoklosa T, Golab J.

J Lab Clin Med. 1994 Apr;123(4):506-14. Heme oxygenase does not
protect human cells against oxidant stress.Nutter LM, Sierra EE, Ngo
EQ.

Experientia. 1983 Aug 15;39(8):888-9. Heme oxygenase activity is
decreased by D-penicillamine in neonates. Oroszlan G, Lakatos L, Szab6
L, Matkovics B, Karmazsin L.

Brain Res. 2004 Jul 16;1014(1-2):87-96. Heme oxygenase inhibition
reduces neuronal activation evoked by bicuculline in newborn pigs.
Parfenova H, Daley ML, Carratu P, Leffler CW.

Comp Biochem Physiol B. 1992 Sep;103(1):251-6. Heme biosynthesis
pathway regulation in a model of hepatocarcinogenesis pre-initiation.
Polo CF, Vazquez ES, Caballero F, Gerez E, Battle AM.

Mol Vis. 2009 Sep 21;15:1929-38. The influence of sublethal blue light
exposure on human RPE cells. Roehlecke C, Schaller A, Knels L, Funk
RH.

Acta Neurochir Suppl. 2003;86:313-9. Antioxidant compounds
EGB-761 and BN-52021 attenuate brain edema formation and
hemeoxygenase expression following hyperthermic brain injury in the
rat. Sharma HS, Drieu K, Westman J.

Am J Pathol. 1994 Jul;145(1):42-7. Heme oxygenase-1 is associated with
the neurofibrillary pathology of Alzheimer's disease.

Smith MA, Kutty RK, Richey PL, Yan SD, Stern D, Chader GJ, Wiggert
B, Petersen RB, Perry G.

J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2004 Jun;36(6):821-30. Transient glucose depriva-
tion causes upregulation of heme oxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2
expression in cardiac fibroblasts.

Takeda K, Lin J, Okubo S, Akazawa-Kudoh S, Kajinami K, Kanemitsu S,
Tsugawa H, Kanda T, Matsui S, Takekoshi N.

Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2005 Jun 1;171(11):1318. "Therapeutic"
carbon monoxide may be toxic. Thom SR, Weaver LK, Hampson NB.
Nutr. July 2009 vol. 139 no. 7 1339-1346. Quercetin Administration
Ameliorates Pulmonary Complications of Cirrhosis in Rats. Tieppo J,
Cuevas MJ, Vercelino R, Tufion MJ, Marroni NP, Gonzalez-Gallego J.
Cell Biol Toxicol. 1998 Feb;14(1):47-54. Carbon monoxide induces
murine thymocyte apoptosis by a free radical-mediated mechanism.
Turcanu V, Dhouib M, Gendrault JL, Poindron P.

Acta Neuropathol. 2004 Jul;108(1):1-9.

Beneficial effects of mild lifelong dietary restriction on skeletal
muscle: prevention of age-related mitochondrial damage, morphologi-
cal changes, and vulnerability to a chemical toxin.

Usuki F, Yasutake A, Umehara F, Higuchi L.

Cancer Biochem Biophys. 1999 Jul;17(1-2):25-34. Drug metabolizing
enzyme system and heme pathway in hepatocarcinogenesis. Vazquez
E, Gerez E, Caballero F, Polo C, Batlle A.

Pharmacol Rev. 2003 Sep;55(3):551-71. Different faces of the heme-
heme oxygenase system in inflammation. Wagener FA, Volk HD, Willis
D, Abraham NG, Soares MP, Adema GJ, Figdor CG.

Neurology. 2011 Jul 5;77(1):48-54. Cerebral microhemorrhage and
brain f-amyloid in aging and Alzheimer disease. Yates PA, Sirisriro R,
Villemagne VL, Farquharson S, Masters CL, Rowe CC.

J Lab Clin Med. 1980 Nov;96(5):770-82. Cancer cell inhibition of
erythropoiesis. Zucker S, Lysik RM, DiStefano JF.

