Ray Peat's Newsletter

AIDS /Syphilis Treatments

Two of the best articles on AIDS that I
have read are by Katie Leishman in The
Atlantic (August, 1987 and January,
1988). In the earlier article, she discussed
some of the poorly publicized alternative
theories about the cause of the disease,
and presented some of the arguments
about the method of transmission,
especially about lice. In the January
article, she concentrates on the
association between AIDS and syphilis.

Leishman quotes the argument of Jean
McKenna, of Berkeley, that the AIDS-
associated virus, HIV, is a by-product of the
disease, rather than its cause, and that it
probably only infects someone who is
already immunosuppressed. Reading the
older scientific llterature, McKenna
learned that both Kaposi’s sareams and
pneumocystic carinii pneumonia had been
associated with syphilis.

Townsend Letter for Doctors June 1988

no indication of toxicity, at 10 times tha
equivalent amount that is proposed for
human treatment.

Medizone was granted U.S. Patent No.
4,632,980 on December 30, 1986, on
“Inactivating lipid-envelope viruses in
blood that is returned to a mammalian
host.”

In humans, this includes AIDS,
herpes, hepatitis, Epstein Barr virus and
cytomegalovirus.

Medizone now has PDA approval to
begin human testing.

All this has been with virtually no
publicity, because the accepted procedure
for publishing medical breakthroughs is
to complete ail the tests first, even though
victims may die waiting for the cautious,
methodica] testing procedure to mun its
course. No one in the industry wants to
raise false hopes, let alone repeat the
medical disasters that have resulted in
the past, from rushing approval on new
treatments.

On the other hand, the drug AZT was
widely publicized for many months before
it was approved in the United States, asis
ongoing research into possible AIDS
vaccines.

The difference is that ozone offers an
actual cure, and it’s cheap.

AZT does not cure but only buys time,
andis expected to cost $10,000 per patient
per year, bringing the Burroughs-
Wellcome Co. up to $300 million, from the
30,000 reported AIDS cases.

The literature suggested that
syphilitic patients are prone to various
opportunistic infections, as AIDS patients
are, although syphilis does not appear to
suppress the immune system until! its
latent and tertiary stages. She tested
twenty-four HIV-positive subjects (most
of whom were ARC and AIDS patents)
with a documented history of syphilis.

Although all of their FTA (fluorescent
treponemal antibody) tests should have
been reactive, twenty-one were not.
McKenna speculated that all AIDS
patients might have syphilis.

In 1981, before AIDS had been
recognized, two German physicians, K.
Dierig and U. Waldthaler, guessed that
gonorrhea) endocarditis might be causing
a patient’s hot flashes, drastic weight loss,
shortness of breath, and confusion, s0
they treated him with 40 million units of
penicillin intravenously each day for
three weeks. His symptoms disappeared,
and later they found he tested positive for
HIV, and a review of his 1981 laboratory
tests “showed abnormalities consistent
with AIDS.” Dierig and Waldthaler then
used the same penicillin treatment on six
other ARC and AIDS patients. All seven
are now “clinically asymptomatic.” (The
usual treatment for syphilis in the US isa
single injection of 2.4 million units of
benzathine penicillin. This form of
penicillin does not penetrate the brain. In
some countries, syphilis is treated for a
year.)

Leishman algo describes the work of
Salvatore Catapano, of Valley Stream,
Long Island. Thirty years ago, Catapano
learned that the Enterobacteriaceae
stimulate immunity, and found that
typhoid vaccine could stop the growth of
tumors. When he saw patients with
Kaposi’s sarcoma, he was reminded of
syphilitic sores he had seen in the tropics.
Catapano believes that the tropical
spirochetal disease, yaws, shouldn’t be
considered as a distinct disease. He
advocates the use of typhoid vaccine to
stimulate the immune system before
treating AIDS patients with penicillin.
Catapano also believes that “syphilis”
infections can occur without the presence
of a spirochete, possibly by a virus-like
variant of the organism. This idea has
been proposed many times, e.g., by
Bergel, in Syphilis im Lichte neuer
Untersuchungen, Jena, 1925.

A few months ago, DJ. Bauer of
Wellcome Laboratories, wrote an article
on the history of antiviral drugs. I know of
his 1959 work, in which he showed that
copper inhibited the growth of a lipid-
coated virus in the brain of mice, 30 I was
surprised to see that he didn’t mention
copper or zinc, and that his story began
with the introduction of amantadine in
1964 to treat influenza (which, like herpes
and HIV, is also lipid-coated). I had been
interested in amantadine for a long time,
because it modifies nerve function in a way
(anticholinergic) that I think mimics
certain steroid hormones which I consider
to be part of our natural anti-viral defense
system. So I was also surprised to see that
Bauer gave no explanation of the origin of
amantadine.

Amantadine (or adamantaneamine) is a
water soluble form (1-amino-adamatane) of
a substance that occurs in petroleum. I
noticed that adamantane smells like
camphor, and that it has a cage-like shape
which is very much like that of camphor.
Camphor hasa long history of use as a germ-
killer (e.g., Campho-phenique, for herpes),
and was used successfully in the great
influenza epidemic 70 years ago. I assume
that the idea of using amantadine to treat
influenza was based on its obvious
similarity to natural camphor. An oxidized
form of camphor, camphoric acid, also has a
faint odor of camphor, and has been used as
an oral germ-killer. It was tested as a
syphilis treatment in comparison with
penicillin and the traditional arsenic
compound, salvarsan, shortly after
penicillin became commercially available.
A)l three eliminated the syphilis infection,
but the drug companies were already set up
to produce large amounts of penicillin
profitably. Camphoric acid was used to
carry bismuth, another heavy metal that
was effective against the syphilis organism.
(I was interested in using camphoric acid to
transport copper, making it able toenter the
brain and also causing it to be absorbed via
the lymphatic system, by-passing the liver
and thus allowing a large dose to be
absorbed without injuring the liver. I
swallowed a small amount, and the next
morning, noticing that my mouth felt fresh
when I woke up, found that my tongue didn’t
have its customary coating. I have heard
that harmless spirochetes tend to grow on
the tongue).

Infection with the “trench mouth”
organism, Trepenema Vincenti, was often
associated with a deficiency of white blood
cells. Another spirochetal disease, Weil's
disease, involved fever, headache,
vomiting, and intestinal bleeding. Still
another type of spirochetal infection was
known in Mexico as “pinta,” and mainly
involved depigmentation of the skin. Early
in the century, some of the abnormalities of
pigmentation, teeth and hair development,
and defects in blood vessels, that had been
attributed to syphilis were found to result
from a copper deficiency.

For at least 80 years, people have beer
observing an association between
anesthesia and the elimination of vira
infections. We have at least three natural
anesthetic systems, namely, the GAB-
system, the endorphins, and the steroid:
(especially progesterone). These ven
likely are just three aspects of a sing|:
system. Close analogs of the GABA
system are already known to have anti
vira} action.

About 60 years ago, it was commonly
believed that women, especially during
pregnancy, are resistant to syphilis
Moore (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull 34, p
89, 1923) states that it is fair to assume:
that pregnancy is the factor which
suppresses the lesions of the disease, Thi
protection may persist over a long period
of years and possibly for a lifetime
Spontaneous cure seems in a few
instances to have been the ultimate
result.

It seems necessary to believe that some
substance produced in the course o!
pregnancy and non-existent in the tissues
and body fluids of males and non-
pregnant women is antagonistic to the
spirochaetae, but whether this is derived
from corpus luteum, or other organ of
internal] secretion, or from the placenta or
foetus, is merely a subject for speculation.
(W.G. MacCallum, A Text-Book of
Pathology, W.B. Saunders, 1937, p. 68+.

Camphor, progesterone, nutritional
supplements, and artificial fever have
even fewer side-effects than penicillin.
and should be tasted more widely. The
GABA analogs, besides being non-toxic,
have the additional advantage of being
very cheap. In the pharmaceutical-
bureaucratic world, though, this has too
often been a fatal defect.

The close association between
immunity and the balance of iron and
copper suggests that the iron/copper ratio
should be studied in AIDS.2 The fact that
hemosiderosis (a disease of excess iron
absorption) occurs mainly in Africans and
in transfusion recipients might be
expected to relate to the virulence of any
infectious disease in those populations.
The tumor of Kaposi’s sarcoma is often
pigmented with hemosiderin. Although
the suppressive effect of iron on the
immune system is well-known, it is
generally ignored, probably because of
our society’s obsessive belief that “ron is
good for you.” Iron’s effect on the immune
system is interestingly examined by June

Goodfield in An Imagined World. 
Since I mentioned the endorphins
above in the context of resistance to |
infections, I should mention that these
endogenous peptides are really a family of
substances with very different properties;
some activate the right side of the brain,
others activate the left side.3 The two
sides of the brain have different effects on
the immune system. Opiates are powerful
suppressors of immunity.5 I think it is
clear that morphine and codeine should
never be used when there is an immune
deficiency.

References
1. Serum copper rises sharply during
pregnancy, partly as a result of high
progesterone levels. Copper provides
some protection against iron toxicity.

2. Physicians with AIDS or ARC patients are invited to p
participate in a study of these and other factors. 
The Health Discernment Laboratory in Santa Barbara, Calif., 
will do the serum testing. They will do tests on about 12 of each
 at no charge, but very special handling of the serum is necessary, 
and instructions are available.

3. Ye. Chazov, ef al., “Chemical providing a means to restrict incompetent the dispute.”Science in theUSSR, No. 1, pp. 21-29, 1987.

4. PJ. Neveu, et al, “Modulation of mitogen-induced lymphoproliferation by
cerebral neocortex,” Life Sciences 38, pp. 1907-1913, 1986.

5. H.U. Bryant, ef al.,  “Immuno-suppressive effects of chronic morphine Catering specifically to the
treatment in mice,” Life Sciences 41, pp.
1731-1738, 1987. 

Ray Peat’s Newsletter
P.O. Box 3427
Eugene, OR 97403 
Townsend Letter for Doctors June 1988

