Re: Ray Peat's View of Fats & Oils

Editor:

I wrote the book: Fats and Oils: The Complete Guide to Fats and Oils in Health and Nutrition (1986), published by Alive Books, 4728 Byrne Rd., Burnaby, BC, Canada VST 3H7. $27.50 in hardcover; $16.50 in softcover.

Ray Peat's accusation that Fats and Oils is an "error-filled, incompetent, and possibly deliberately misleading" book surprised me. His letter requires detailed correction.

1. Ray Peat suggests that I might be "a hired commercial writer working from information provided by his employer." Wrong.
In fact, I buried my head in the journals for 3 years part-time and 3 more years full-time to gather the information presented in the book. I began because I had a health problem for which I could find no medical solution. Studying nutrition, I noticed that fats and oils play a part in many degenerative conditions. I wanted to get to the bottom of that and did.

2. He says: "I suspect that neither Erasmus nor Budwig has studied the fundamentals of organic chemistry." Wrong again.

I studied the fundamentals of organic chemistry, as well as several courses in biochemistry, including a graduate course in the biochemistry of lipids at the University of British Columbia. With six years of university studies in the life sciences, I continued studies on my own.

Budwig's understanding of organic chemistry and biochemistry is impeccable. She authored several papers published in reputable German lipid research journals and a dozen books. Extremely innovative, she has used her expertise to attain brilliant insights into product development from the point of view of human health.

3. He claims that I recommend "linoleic acid and related oils, in...amounts known to cause serious health problems," which he lists.

I make a distinction between what I report (from research and clinical findings) and what I recommend (based on what I understand about health). I have only recommended one oil: fresh flaxseed oil (which is high in the omega-3 alpha-linolenic acid and low in omega-6 linoleic acid).

Made by a company called Omega Nutrition, the flaxseed oil that I have recommended is mechanically pressed from certified organic flaxseeds by an especially painstaking, light-free, oxygen-free, low-temperature method (OMEGAFLO). The oil is unrefined, packaged in completely opaque containers (to prevent destruction by light), dated with a 4-month shelf life, and shipped refrigerated.

I have recommended this oil because it sets a precedent and a new direction in the manufacture of oils. If human health is really our concern, this is how, in my opinion, oils need to be made. In Fats and Oils, I devoted two chapters to making and labeling "healthy" oils. Omega Nutrition exceeded all of my specifications. I have no legal or financial affiliation with the company and do not profit from their sales.

I distinguish between linseed oil and flaxseed oil. Linseed oil is the name used in the industry for paint-grade oil, pressed from flaxseeds without the care that human consumption requires. Linseed oil is considered inedible but finds its way into our food supply nevertheless, both in bottles and in capsules.
Flaxseed oil, on the other hand, is the name we give to oil made with the care required for human health, marketed fresh, refrigerated, and hopefully shipped directly to the retailer or consumer.

I do not recommend any brands of oil called linseed (flax) or flax (linseed). After only two years of production, there are already several imitations on the market, none of which I recommend. Quality and greed carry us in different directions.

The flax growers like a distinction to be made between the paint-grade and the human-health product because they, too, don't want the confusion of terms and products.

5. From the health point of view, I do not recommend any refined oils (because of destructive processing and removal of nutrients), any non-organic, unrefined oils (because of pesticide residues), or any oils packaged in transparent plastic containers. One could hardly call me a friend of the billion-dollar oil industry.

6. I recommend a total of 15 to 20% of calories from fats in the diet of most people. This is 10% lower than the recommendation of the American Heart Association but in line with traditional diets not leading to cardiovascular disease. If 2% of daily calories were omega-3s, 4% omega-6s (I suggested 3 to 10% in Fats and Oils), 5% monos and 5% saturates, they might constitute reasonable ratios for health. The body adapts to fluctuations in the ratios. It cannot handle too many saturates or too many omega-6s. It needs both essential fatty acids. A balance is prudent.

Pritikin's diet, in my opinion, was too low in total fats, too low in omega-3s, and too low in vitamin E. His diet is useful in the treatment of obesity and atherosclerosis, under supervision. It fails as a way of life for healthy people.

I strongly disagree with the "fat is poison" sentiment. There is too much research evidence for the essentiality of fats and of essential fatty acids in the diet. Too little or too much results in problems.

7. I agree that an excess of the omega-6 linoleic acid, especially from refined oils, fried omega oils, and an omega-6 containing diet lacking antioxidants leads to health problems. I consider this now established fact important enough to emphasize in every lecture I give.

8. My apologies to Dr. Jeffrey Bland for being misquoted. The quote in Peat's letter was taken not from the book's introduction, which was written by Dr. Bland, but from an advertising flyer assembled by the publisher of Fats and Oils. In all of my dealings with Dr. Bland, I have found him to be conscientious, detailed, and accurate. I have no reason to believe that he acted contrary in reviewing the manuscript of Fats and Oils.

9. Dr. Max Gerson aid use fresh flax
seed oil in his work. He called it linseed oil
(unfortunately, in my opinion). The Gerson
clinic, operated by his daughter, uses
Omega Nutrition’s flax seed oil, with good
results in the treatment of many
degenerative diseases.

The telephone number of the Gerson
Institute, where one can obtain more
information about Dr. Gerson’s methods
is 619-267-1150. I prefer to let them tell
the story of how Dr. Gerson came to include
the oil in his treatment, and what

he had then and now

results
). O have never met Mike Minarsich.

He is not a scientist, but a promoter. He,
like many others since the book came out,
has eagerly quoted me to sell his particular
brand of products. He has done so without
my permission. I in no way endorse or
recommend his products.

11. I am a writer and educator, doing
my best to spread the word about fats and
oils, cholesterol, essential fatty acids,
omega 3’s, human health and natural
therapies. I earn my living by charging
fees for education and consultations, and
collecting royalties on books.

12. Finally, a word about oxidation
and anti-oxidants. In the last few years,
we have given anti-oxidants a lot of
deserved attention. In the process
however, we have almost forgotten that
animal and human life depend on
oxidation. Oxidation produces energy.
Lack of oxidation results in lowered
metabolic rate, lower energy levels, and
degeneration.

The essential fatty acids (especially
the omega 3 essential fatty acid alpha-
linolenic acid) constitute the highest level
oxidants in human nutrition. We require
them for our oxidation-dependent life.

In the final analysis, the energy which

keeps us alive is generated by a finely

regulated balance of oxidation and [-

reduction, by a proper balance of oxidants
and antioxidants. The fats and oils, in
their natural form, are a necessary part of
this balance.

Udo Erasmus, BSc (Zoology)
MA (Counseling Psychology)
PhD (Nutrition)

1205 Alderbay Walk

Vancouver, British Colombia

Canada V6H 3T6

604-731-4255

Our company Omega Nutrition supplies
fresh flax oil to several of the fatty acid
researchers in the world. If Mr. Peat would
read some of the orthodox medical journals
listed below such as the JNCI, Lancet,
JAOCS, he would see just how misinformed
he is.

Mr. Peat's article mentions linoleic acid
as causing problems ranging from brain
impairment to suppressed immunity. The
point Mr. Peat has missed is that Flax oil
contains only small amounts of linoleic acid,
Flax oil 1s predominantly linolenic acid, a
substance proven to be essential in brain
development and learning, slowing aging
and age pigment accumulation, repairing
damage to the circulatory system, selectively
kills certain cancer cells, increasing immune
response, coincidently ail the things Mr.
Peat has claimed contrary.

It appears Mr. Peat has got linolenic and
(Omega 3) confused with linoleic acid (Omega
6). Linoleic acid (common in most oils) is
definitely involved in promotion of cancer
due to lack of production of cyclooxygenases
and increased PGE 2 production. Omega 3
fatty acids can control PGE 2 production to
some extent. Dr. Karmali found the best
ratio of Omega 6/3 is 1/1 for preventing
cancer and that Omega 3 works by
preventing immunosuppression of cell-
mediated immunity. Flax oil typically
contains 55-60% Omega 3.

It disappoints me that a person does
not make a reasonable attempt to
understand a subject before he criticizes
something and that he footnotes his entire
article from his own newsletter. When
one bases his whole criticism on an excerpt
from his own newsletter, one can conclude
that Mr. Peat is on a subscription drive.

I have attached several reputable
references and research facilities
supporting the above facts. Our company
has received letters from people who have
been given up by the medical
establishment, but have been greatly
helped by using our flax seed oil. The only
side effect we have had reported is from
people who have severe liver problems
and have problems digesting any fat.

I applaud the Townsend Letter for
allowing the wide arena of letters to the
editor so information and discussion can
be publicly aired.
Another in Response to Ray Peat

Editor, 00S ORI IVINS MINIT OND DOU Ue ee
It is with great interest that I watch
the criticism and rebuttals that occur issue
to issue. After reading Raymond Peat’s
opinion, footnoted only by his own
newsletter, I must step into the battlefield.

References:

JNIC, Vol 77, #5, Nov 1986; Selective
Killing of Cancer Cells

AJCN, #44, Sept. 1986, page 336-340;
Linolenic Acid and Blood Pressure

Nutrition Today, Mar to June 1988, pages
10-19, 12-18

Lancet, Vol 2, Nov. 7 1964

JAOCS, Vo) 65, #4, Apri] 1988, Page 509

Prostaglandin Leukotrienes & Medicine,
1985, Pages 177-286

SA Medical Journal, Vol 62, Oct 1988
page 500 and Oct 30 1982 page 63

Current Research in Progress

USDA, Dr. Levander, Beltsville, MD
Treatment of Malaria

Dr. Cunnane, U of Toronto, Diabetes

Dr. McDonald, U of Manitoba, Reducing
Cholesterol

Pierre Budowski, Israel, Linolenic acid
slowing down and reversing aging
making cell walls and membranes
more flexing.

Dr. Martha Neuring, Oregon, Linolenic
acid necessary for brain development
and learning disabilities.

Robert Walberg
Omega Nutrition, Inc.

#309 - 8495 Ontario Street
Vancouver, British Columbia
Canada V5X-3E8
604-322-8862

Cold Pressed Oils 7

Editor:

Rheumatoid arthritis is presumed to
be an autoimmune disease, at least it is an
inflammatory disease. In the January 26,
1985 issue of Lancet Kremer et al. spell
this out. Then they use MAX EPA to
suppress inflammatory action, in other
words to be immunosuppressive. Here
they were using a fish oil product that
could be expected to be all cis isomers and
no trans isomers. In Lancet for March 18,
1978, Bower and Newsholme used 30 ml.
of sunflower seed oil which most likely
had about 5% trans isomers and 95% cis
isomers, and 0.5 ml. of wheat germ oil

which would be all cis isomers. The oil
mixture used here had to be highly
immunosuppressive to have an effect on an
autoimmune disease such as the Guillain-
Barre syndrome.

Nowa bit about cold pressed oils. I rather
doubt if there are any on the market today,
even though they are sold aa such. The
presumed benefit of cold pressed oils is that
they would be free from the harmful trans
isomers.

Trans isomers of PUFAs were never in
human food prior to about 1925. They are
formed in the caustic refining of vegetable
oils and in far greater amounts by the
hydrogenation process.

I know a great lot about flax seed oil and
J will tell some of it here. From Berlin east
across Poland and Russia before about 1930,
small food stores had presses for the pressing
of flax seed oil. On pressing flax seed about
40% of the oil was removed. The customer
would be given the oil and the press cake
which contained the other 60% of the oil.
This press cake would be taken home and
used in making black bread. The flax seed
cake was what made bread black. Newly
pressed flax seed ail has a pleasant nutty
aroma. Let freshly pressed oil set on the
shelf for a week or so and brown phosphatides
will settle out at the bottom of the bottle.

I do not know how much oil one can get by
pressing soya beans, but the oil one would
get would have a most unpleasant and
disagreeable odor. Also, as soya oil is higher
in phosphatides, there would be about 3
times as much brown sludge settle out.
Refined, this sludge is soya lecithin.

I see nothing even remotely like what I
have described here, being sold in health
food stores as cold pressed oil. ] suspect that
what is being sold is refined oil, sold under
a false label. By the by, with the exception of
flax and olive oils, most crude oils have an
unpleasant aroma and it is for that reason
that they are refined.

There is nothing wrong with hexane
extraction of vegetable oils. J fee] certain
that Vioben Laboratories hexane extracts
its wheat germ oil. With Efamol Research,
they are keeping a secret how they extract
evening primrose oil, but I would bet a lot
that it is hexane extracted. Fresh hexane
extracted soya oil smells awful, however it is
free from trans isomers.

If one wants some PUFAs free from trans
isomers one should eat food containing then
such as walnuts which are 50% oil by weight.

Wayne Martin
25 Orchard Drive
Fairhope, Alabama 36532