Circumcision
»

discourage circumcision and to refuse
to perform it.

Physicians today have a unique
historic opportunity to correct the
mistakes of the past by realigning
medical practice with ethics and the
principles of human rights. Every
individual has a right to the body he or
she was bern with. Physicians have a
duty to protect this right and te uphold
the first tenet of the Hippocratic oath
“First, Do No Harm.”

References

1. Dogiel AS. Dic Nervenendigungen in der Haut der
Gusseren Genitalorgane des Menschen, Archive fir
Mikroshopiache Anatomie 1893; 41:585-612.

2 Taylor JR, Lockwood AP, Taylor AJ. The prepuce
Specialized mucosa of the peris and its loss to circumcision

British Journal of Urology 1996;77291-295,

While I was working on my
dissertation, around 1970, the opposition
between stress-injury and energetic
resistance became increasingly apparent
to me. Estrogen (like X-irradiation, aging,
or trauma) called up the cortisone
response, and other factors, especially
progesterone and thyroid, and allowed the
organism to restore itself in ways that
neutralized the cortisone response.
Therefore, when I saw that the estrogen-
like processes became more and more
dominant after middle-age, it was natural
to think of progesterone and thyroid as
the main factors that should be replaced.
This is why in 1975 I described menopause
as resembling Cushing's syndrome, which
is caused by a toxic excess of cortisol.
Osteoporosis, hot flashes, insomnia, and
mood disorders are caused by cortisol, and
so I tried using progesterone and thyroid
— the anticortisol factors — for those
conditions. The results were so profound
that I began to study the general
implications for health, and to try to
understand the mechanisms so that
prevention might replace treatment.

Several people who had been
abandoned as hopeless terminal cases —
with “epileptic brain damage,”
inflammatory degeneration of hip and
thigh bones, diabetic gangrene, senility —
recovered their health within a few days,
and went on with their lives in productive
and pleasant ways.

Birley HDL. Walker MM. Lurie GA et al. Clinical
features and management of recurrent halanitis:
S@esccistion with atopy snd genital washing
Genitourinary Medicine 1993; 69:400-3

Wiswell TE, Smith FR. Bass JW. Dacreased incidence of
urinary tract infections in circumcised male infants.

Fleiss PM. Explanation for false-positive urine cultures

obtained by bag technique. Archives of Pediatrics and

Adolescent Medicine 1995; 143-10461-1042.

Naouri A. Ne teuchez plus au prepuce de enfant. Le

Généraliste 1986; 868:10-13

= ara Ww “Beitrag sur Zirkumzision und ihren
en,” Dermatologische Wochenachrift 1985;

Py 1167-1169.

Laumann, Edward O; John H. Gagnon; Robert T

Michael; Stuart Michaels. The Socisl Organization of

Sexuality: Sexual Practices in the United States. Chicage

University of Chicago Press. 1994. pp. 369-375.

. Dixon S. Snyder J. Holve R. Bromberger P_ Behaviors)
effecta of elrcumciaion with and without anesthesia
Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics 1984
5-246-250.

. Taddio A. Goldbach M ipp M. Stewens B. Koren G
Effect of neonatal circumcision on pain responses during
vaccination in boys. Lancer 1995; 345:291-292.

. Fleiaxs PM. Circumcision. Lance: 1995; 346:927.

. Preacott, JW. Genital pain vs, genital pleasure: why the
one and not the other? Truth Secker 1989; 1:14-21
Donovan B. Bassett |. Bodseworth NJ. Male circumcision
and common sexually transmissible diseases in a
developed nation setting. Genitourinary Medicine 1994;
70:317-320,

Preserving the Tissues

Osteoporosis and the Skin

by Ray Peat, PhD

I knew that intense and frequent
epileptic seizures cause the exhaustion
and death of brain cells. A 52 year-old
woman had been having seizures for over
15 years. Her neurologist gave her a
mental exam every year, and considered
her to be hopelessly demented. After using
progesterone for a few days, she functioned
normally. After about a year, she returned
to graduate school at the University of
Oregon, and got a master’s degree with
straight A’s.

A79 year-old woman had had artificial
hip joints implanted when she was in her
fifties, but her bones had weakened to the
point that no further surgical repair was
possible. She settled her affairs, and didn't
expect to get out of bed again. After using
progesterone topically and orally, after two
weeks she was able to get out of bed and
return to her normal activities. At the age
of 85, she went camping on the beach in
Mexico, and travelled to Scotland.

An 82-year old man was agitated and
confused, and was apparently suffering
from senile dementia. After being given
progesterone and pregnenolone for a few
days, his mind became clear, and he
returned to work on scientific projects he
had begun decades earlier. A squamous
cell cancer on his lip regressed, and never
bothered him again.

A 60 year-old woman had
“osteoporosis” (shrinking) of the jaw bone
that was causing her teeth to loosen. After

TOWNSEND LETTER for DOCTORS & PATIENTS — APRIL 1996

. Cook LS. Koutsky LA Holmes KK. Clinical presentation
of genital warts among circumcised and uncircumcised
heterosexus) men attending an urban STD clinic.

Maden C. Sherman KJ. Beckmann AM. Hislop TG. Teh
CZ Ashley RL. Daling JH History of eircumcinion,
niedical conditions, and sexual activity and risk of penile
cancer. /ournal of the National Cancer Institute 1993;
85:19-24,

Frisch M. Friis S Kiser SK. Melbye M. Falling
incidence of penis cancer in an uncircumcised population.
BMJ 1995; 311:1471.

. Cutler SJ. Young JL Jr. Third National Cancer Survry:
Incidence Data. National Cancer Insitute Monograph 41.
Bethesda, Maryland, US Dept of Health, Education, and
Welfare, Public Health Service, 1975.

. Gee WF. Ansell JS. Neonatal creumcision: a ten-year
overview. Pecliatries 1976; 68:824-827.

Thompson RS. Routine ci in the newborn: an
opposing view. Journal of Family Pras 1990; 31:189-

Medical Publishers. 1986 pp. 387-4396.

. Committer on Bioethics. Informed Consent, Parental
Permission, and Assent in Pediatric Practice, Pedintrics
1996; 95:314-317.

¢

applying progesterone solution to her
gums daily for a few months, her teeth
became firm.

When bones had almost disappeared
from X-rays, yet became firm and
functional within a few weeks, it was
obvious that regeneration had taken place.
But when brains went in a very short
time, from imbecility or idiocy to
intellectual productivity, I could only guess
what might be happening to the cells. But
I got a useful perspective on the
mechanism of progesterone’s action by
seeing some recoveries that were even
faster than those I have mentioned.

In animal experiments, I knew that
estrogen causes cells to take up water
within a few minutes after it reaches the
tissue, and that this is at least partly the
result of its interfering with the
availability of oxygen. Within 40 minutes
of administering a large dose of estrogen,
the lungs become extremely inefficient at
oxygenating the blood. This involves a
sudden thickening of the alveolar
membranes and the walls of capillaries,
simply by taking up water. So, when I
saw bulging veins disappear a few minutes
after women took progesterone, along with
a sudden lifting of extreme depression, I
guessed that their circulation had become
more efficient, and that better oxygenation
had changed their mood.

Then, I repeatedly saw physical
changes in other people that were visible

ee ~ Wt tee es

within an hour, and that involved a sudden
movement of water out of edematous
tissues. In many people with damaged
joint cartilage (confirmed by various types
of examination, including arthroscopy), the
joints became mobile in an hour, and by
the next day, the defect no longer existed.
A man who was purple from emphysema
changed color within a few hours, and
within a few days was going to work. The
bulging eyes of exophthalmic Graves’
disease receded into their sockets
noticeably within an hour, and were
normal the next day. Simply increasing
the circulation couldn’t have done those
things. Opposing estrogen’s edema-
promoting action was involved, but I
couldn’t imagine any mechanism that
could explain such rapid movement of
water from the swollen tissue into the
bloodstream.

One of estrogen’s effects is to lower the
amount of albumin in the blood. Estrogen
causes the liver to synthesize less alburnin,
partly by causing the messenger RNA to
be destabilized and degraded. (Iron can
have some similar effects on liver RNA.)
When there isn’t enough albumin in the
blood, water moves from the blood into
the tissues, causing edema.
(Premenstrually, edema might seem to be
just a nuisance, but it can eventually
become a serious problem, with aging or
pregnancy, for example.) Albumin binds
oily substances, and its conformation
seems to be opened when it binds them.
Progesterone is known to adsorb strongly
to proteins — it has been called a “cardinal
adsorbant,” meaning that it can bind in
ways that cause the protein's adsorptive
capacity to change. ] believe that
progesterone and pregnenolone oppose
estrogen in many ways, but the amazing
speed with which they can cause major
structural changes in the soft tissues
convinces me that one of their first sites of
action is the albumin molecule, causing
its conformation to open in such a way
that it is able to more strongly bind water
molecules. This physical change in
albumin would change the blood’s osmotic/
oncotic pressure, causing water to flow
into capillaries. As the edema is reduced,
oxygenation is more efficient, because the
pathway for oxygen diffusion becomes
shorter.

Albumin has been described as a first
line of defense against toxins, since it binds
them until the liver is able to degrade
them chemically. Progesterone,
pregnenolone, and cholesterol are known
to increase the organism's resistance to a
great variety of toxins. (Selye coined the
name “catatoxic steroids” to describe
steroids of this type.) If these steroids bind

to albumin in a way that opens the protein
to increase its binding capacity, that single
process could explain the “catatoxic” effect,
as well as the anti-edema effect.

When the blood is unable to retain its
normal amount of water because of
insufficient albumin/sedium, the blood
volume is reduced as the tissues become
water-logged. This causes the hematocrit
(the proportion of cells in a volume of
blood) to rise, and this increased packing
of red blood cells causes the blood to

oxygen and nutrients to the tissues,
including the blood vessel walls, modifying
their tone. Slower flow, even without any
changes in the fibrin fibrinogen system
itself, increases the formation of clots.

This description of progesterone’s
immediate action is intended to take some
of the mystery out of its dramatic effects,
but it isn't intended to argue against any
of its actions within cells. It serves to give
a general picture of how progesterone can
systematically reduce stress and its
harmful consequences, just by making
blood circulation more efficient.

At first I most often used progesterone
dissolved in olive oil to stop the stress-
induced processes of deterioration, with a
high protein diet to support the processes
of repair. Now, I have added a variety of
other techniques.

There always seems to be a rough
balance between tissue regeneration and
tissue degeneration, with growth and
repair occurring when the equilibrium
shifts in one direction, and with atrophy
or degeneration occurring when the
balance shifts in the other direction. If we
can understand the mechanisms of
atrophy, and how to retard or to block
tissue destruction, then we can restore
the balance to a degree which might allow
regeneration to occur, even if we don't
clearly understand the mechanisms of
growth.

Skin and bones are such different types
of tissue that it will be useful to start with
them, because if we can see similar
processes of degeneration or regeneration
in them, then the chances are good that
the same processes will occur in other
tissues too. Bone is a relatively stable
tissue, while skin is a tissue whose cells
divide rapidly.

It is common medical knowledge that
cortisone and related glucocorticoid-type
hormones cause skin to atrophy, becoming
thinner. Using topical applications of a
synthetic derivative of cortisone, C. M.
Papa and A M. Kligman showed that the

TOWNSEND LETTER for DOCTORS & PATIENTS — APRIL 1996

atrophy extended to the pigment cells,
reducing their size and eliminating most
of their dendritic branches. They also
found that estrogen caused the skin to
become thinner. The other steroids they
tested, progesterone, testosterone, and
pregnenolone, acted in the opposite
direction, making aged and atrophied skin
thicker and more regular. They also made
the pigment cells larger, and increased
their branching.

Since these hormones were already
known to have protective actions against
cortisone and estrogen, these results were
not too surprising, though they did directly
contradict the claims of people who made
estrogen-containing cosmetics.

Since progesterone and pregnenolone
do not cause healthy, young skin to
thicken, their effect in damaged skin is
probably partly to replace the deficiency
of that type of steraid which occurs with
aging, and to offset the damaging effects
of the catabolic hormones, whose influence
does not decrease with age.?

Many years ago it was found that in
old age a woman's estrogens were
increased relative to the 17-keto steroids
adrenal androgens. Later, it was found
that the conversion of androgen to estrogen
increases with age in both men and
women, and that this occurs largely in fat
cells. Several years ago, P. K. Siiteri found
that low thyroid modified the enzymes of
fat cells in a way that would tend to
increase the conversion of androgen to
estrogen. More recently, it was found that
adding progesterone to the enzymes had
the opposite effect of aging and
hypothyroidism, protecting the androgen
from conversion to estrogen. These
researchers (C. J. Newton and colleagues,
of London) cancluded that the decreased
output of progesterone after the
menopause might account for the
increased production of estrogen.* Since
progesterone declines in aging men, too,
this could account for the same process in
men.”

Vitamin A’s effect on the skin opposes
that of estrogen.‘ There are several
mechanisms that could account for this.
Vitamin A is used in the formation of
steroids, and since the skin is a major site
of steroid metabolism, vitamin A might
help to maintain the level of the anti-
catabolic steroids. A deficiency of vitamin
Acauses excessive release of the lysosomal
enzymes, acid hydrolases, resulting in
tissue catabolism.* Also, vitamin A is
necessary for the proper differentiation of
cells in skin and other membranes. A
deficiency tends to cause an increased rate

>»

Osteoporosis & Skin |

ag

>»

of cell division, with the production of
abnormal cells, and a substitution of
keratinized cells for other types. Estrogen
also promotes keratinization and speeds
cell division. A deficiency of vitamin A can
cause leukoplakia in the mouth and on
the cervix of the uterus; although this is
considered “pre-cancerous,” I have found
it to be very easily reversible, as { have
discussed elsewhere.* I suspect that the
intracellular fiber, keratin, is produced
when a cell can’t afford to do anything
more complex. Adequate vitamin A speeds
protein synthesis,’ and allows it to be used
more efficiently.

Prolactin (which is promoted by
estrogen, and inhibited by progesterone)
increases with stress and with age. It
probably affects every tissue, but it seems
to have its greatest effects on the secretory
membranes. It is known lo have strong
effects on the kidney, gut and skin (sweat
and oil glands, hair follicles, and feathers
in birds), and on the gills of fish. Its
involvement with milk production
suggests that it might mobilize calcium
from bones, and in fact it does contribute
to osteoporosis. This was foreseen by G.
Bourne, in his book on the metabolism of
hard tissues, when he suggested that
estrogen, acting through the pituitary,
might be expected to promote osteoporosis.

Since reading Bourne's book, [ have
doubted that it was rational to use
estrogen to prevent osteoporosis, especially
when it is known to be carcinogenic and
when the ratio of estrogen to androgens
and progesterone increases after
menopause. Now that several publications
have appeared clearly showing that
estrogen increases prolactin, that prolactin
increases with aging, and that prolactin
contributes to osteoporosis, the
postmenopausal use of estrogen is worse
than dubious. But this was exactly when
the pharmaceutical companies needed
help in continuing to sell their profitable
estrogens, and this was exactly the time
when the FDA came out with its official
approval of estrogen for preventing
osteoporosis.*

Some doctors combine estrogen with
testosterone, and this is much safer and
more likely to keep the bones healthy.
But since testosterone, like estrogen and
cortisone, causes the thymus gland to
atrophy, it is not a very good idea for
chronic use, even if it doesn’t cause
masculinization. The other anti-estrogens,
which are present at high Jevels in young
women, include progesterone and DHEA.
I have seen several publications which I
think would justify the use of physiological

amounts of DHEA to prevent or to treat
osteoporosis,* and a few which support
the use of progesterone.'’**! My own
observations on their use in osteoporosis
have been presented many times at
alternative medical conferences since the
1970s, but the main-line medical journals
and conferences have declined to accept
my reports, even when they advertise that
all papers submitted will be presented in
some form; many physicians believe that

they are being presented with a fair
sampling of the work being done in

bone loss, and it is widely accepted that
progesterone has an “antigiucocorticoid”
action, it is reasonable to think that
progesterone should protect against bone
loss, and that it is a progesterone
deficiency afler menopause which is a
major factor in the development of
osteoporosis. In the first edition of
Nutrition for Women (1975) I pointed this
out, in comparing menopause to Cushing's
disease. Nencioni and Polvani more
recently made observations which support
this mechanism, in which progesterone
“exerts a protective effect,” by blocking
the corticosteroid receptors. They observed
“that the process of rapid bone resorption
starts before the onset of amenorrhea and
the abrupt fal! in the estrogen levels and
coincides with decline in progesterone
secretion.”

By improving blood circulation and
oxygenation of the tissues, progesterone
and pregnenolone will decrease the need
for the body to produce cortisol.
Pregnenolone acts in the brain to decrease
the basal secretion of ACTH. This
protective effect is more basic than that
achieved by blocking the cortisol receptors.

The early tests of the toxicity of vitamin
A used cartilage in tissue culture. The
same enzymes which are released by a
deficiency of vitamin A are released by a
large excess, causing dissolution of the
cartilage. Other studies showed that a
vitamin A deficiency caused similar
changes in both bone and cartilage.
Although much vitamin A is consumed in
the production of progesterone, these
studies show a direct effect of the vitamin
on tissue stability. Although I believe that
a vitamin A supplement will offer
considerable protection against
osteoporosis (and also against aging of
the skin), it is important to remember
that excessive vitamin A inhibits the
thyroid, and that there is less risk of
toxicity when vitamin E is supplemented

TOWNSEND LETTER for DOCTORS & PATIENTS — APRIt 1996

Osteoporosis & Skin

too. I think many of the headaches
currently associated with vitamin A use
are the result of a preservative in the
capsules (probably a sulfite), since some
people who react to the vitamin in capsule
form don’t react when they use a specially
ordered bulk form prepared without
preservatives.

Things which damage skin and bones
also damage other tissues, and things
which protect them also protect other
tissues. The protective factors include
hormones (thyroid, DHEA, progesterone,
and pregnenolone), vitamins A and E, and
minerals — including magnesium, calcium,
and sodium. Sodium spares magnesium,
and helps to make albumin function in
regulating blood and tissue water content.
Under some conditions, sodium can act as
an antioxidant. Since the unsaturated oils
‘and their prostaglandin derivatives)
decrease respiration, cause stress to be
mere harmful, and have some specific
effects that promote aging of skin, bones,
and other tissues, the use of coconut oil is
especially important. I think its use is one
of the factors that prevents osteoporosis
in tropical countries.

Correspondence:
Raymond Peat, Ph.D.

Ray Peat’s Newsletter

P. O. Box 6764

Eugene, Oregon 97405 USA

References
1. C.M Papaand A M. Kligman, chapter X1] in Advances

men,” chapter § in Endocrines and Aging, ed. by
Gitman, 1965.
C. J, Newton, et al., “Aromatase activity and
concentrationa of cortisol, progeaterane and
testosterone in breast and abdominal adipose tissue,”
J. Steroid Biochem. 2445), 1033-1089, 1986.
W. Bo, Relation of vitamin A doficiency and estrogen
w induction of keratinizing metaplasia,” Amer J. Clin.
Nutr, 516, p, 666, 1957. Also, Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.
Med. 76, 1951.
O. A. Roels, “Present knowledge of vitamin A.” chapter
XIU in, Present Knowledge in Nutrition (third edition),
Nutrition Foundation, NY. 1967. R. Peat, Nutrition
Foundation, N.Y., 1967.
R. Peat, Nutrition for Women, 1981.
S. B. Porter, et al. “Vitamin A status affects chromatin
structure,” internat! J. Vit. and Nutr. Res. 56, 11-20,
1986.
Anonymous, “Estrogens for osteoporosia,” FDA Drag
Bulletin 1601), pages 5-6, June 1886.
S. Brody, et al.. Maturitas (Netherlands) 4(2), 113-
122, 1982, M. Boross, et al., Aktuelle Gerontologic
(Stattgart) 1301), 15-18, 1983.

. FP. Mandel, et al... Reprod, Med 278), 611-519,
1982.

. T. Nencioni and P, Polvani, Calcitonin, p, 297-305, A
Pocile, editor, Elsevier, N.Y_, 1985.

