Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission Copyright 1998 Raymond Peat PO Box 5764, Eugene, OR

Tissue Firmness and Elasticity,
and Rothen's Resonance:
Forgotten Physics and Aging

The most interesting problems exist exactly
where the professionals assert that there is no
problem at all.

The space between cells is of interest to many
specialists, but it is relegated to the background in
mainline medical thinking. In reality, the stuff
between cells is the biggest part of a complex
organism, and it contains many of the answers to
questions of individuality, immunity, growth,
aging, healing, sickness, and regeneration.

Respiration is essential for the existence of
higher organisms, making it possible to
maintain complex and adaptive structures,
containing appropriately differentiated cells. I
want to introduce some ideas about how respi-
ration is involved in the creation of structures
both inside cells and in the spaces between

cells.

The idea of "containment in the cell" has
directed attention away from the ways in which
a cell knows what it is and where it is, and
where it should be, what tt should do.

The material in between cells has been
dismissed as little more than glue, but it is
‘where some of our most important things
happen.

But first, I want to outline some of the mental
habits and fixations that have been retarding
biology and medicine for a long time, keeping

people from thinking about these organismic
issues.

THE BIAS AGAINST SENSITIVITY

In dead vegetable matter, "cells" were the
empty spaces in the fibrous framework. Plants
could be grafted or propagated from cuttings,
making it clear that one type of plant tissue could
generate the other types. The “essence” of plants
was considered to be little more than growth, and
their seeds had the disadvantage of introducing
individual variation. Grafting and cloning
animals didn't seem to work, and the idea grew up
that the animal's essence was contained in the
germ cell, while the plant's essence was in its
vegetation.

"Contained" in the "cell," our "essence" had

Carbonated water is such a common thing,
chemists are embarrassed to talk about it.

All the water in respiring organisms
contains a considerable amount of carbon
‘dioxide.

Carbon dioxide binds to proteins and to
other amine-containing polymers, and dissolves
in water, reducing the pH, so that the interac-
tions of polymers and water are strongly
affected by the concentration of CO2.

Carbon dioxide modifies biological materi-
als and structures in and around our cells.

only to reveal itself. A man's semen was his
essence, which introduced the soul into the egg,
animating it. Replacing "preformationism” with
"epigenesis" simply introduced the idea of
individualism, by saying that a new individual
came into existence by fertilization, but it didn't

end the belief that our identity was “contained”
"genetically" within the cell.

The neat little compartments seen in plant
tissues became a sort of mental armature that no
one questioned. Almost all of biology has been
reduced to the idea that “the necessary _informa-
tion is contained within the cell, tn its genes."
The "Central Dogma" of molecular biology was
stated as "information flows from DNA to RNA

and from RNA to protein, and not the other way."

To speak of cellular sensitivity (as Lamarck did)
is to assert that information flows into cells; the
fanatical opposition to Lamarck that has charac-
tenzed biology in the 20th century has blended
into a general hatred of "vitalism,” the idea that
life could be explained in terms of its special,
living qualities. The dogmatists insist that life
must be explained in terms of physics as they
understand it, and it happens that their
"physics" is nothing but a doctrinal relic kept
in place to justify their conceptions of biology.
The idea that cells are governed by their
responses to whatever surrounds them has taken a

long time to develop, and the dogmatists still feel
that there is sometfiag impermissibly "vitalistic"
in the idea that cells are sensitive or responsive.
To be sensitive is to receive information from
“outside,” and so the anti-Lamarckian ideas of
evolution and adaptation were extended into the
fields of development, immunity, aging, even
learning. "Clonal selection" has been proposed to
explain everything that happens in the organism,
from development to cancer, because this view is
compatible with the doctnne that information
flows only from the genes to the cell; the cells
simply die if they don't contain the necessary
information. "Programmed cell death," in which a
genetic code--a program, like a computer
program--specifies the time at which a cell will
die, 1s a characteristic part of this doctrine about
the nature of a complex organism.

I think it is necessary to look at these estab-
lished ideas, which are absurd and unfounded,
because we are forced to wallow in them every
day, until people have come to treat them as if
they were intelligent, intellectually responsible,
descnptions of reality; if we realize that silly
ideas and connotations have been built into our

language, then we can begin to give serious atten-
tion to the "anomalies" of science.
"Anomalies" are facts that don't obey the law,

and so they are of special importance for anyone ~

who cares about understanding things. If you
have some parts left over after you have assem-
bled a puzzle, maybe the puzzle wasn't correctly
assembled. So-called anomalies are often the
most productive places to look for solutions.

CELLULAR JUDGMENTS

That cells may be small or large or giant hasn't
seemed problematic to most biologists. The
assumption seems to have been that they "are big
enough to contain their essential genes."

Once or twice, I have got biologists to talk
about the question of how a cell knows that it is
big enough to divide. | think the essence of their
answer is something like "they count the
molecules," which ts to embarrassingly compound
the puzzle, like the farmer who explained his
marvelous ability to rapidly count the cows in a
field by saying that he "simply counted the teats
and divided by four."

The same kind of question can be applied to
the thickness of layers of extracellular materiai,
such as the basal lamina of capillaries. For
example, granted that a cell should rest on a struc-
ture of a certain uniform thickness, how does a
cell know when to stop secreting the material?
When it is modifying the chemical composition of
its extracellular matnx, how does it determine
that the right composition has been achieved,
when the substance is outside the cell?

Cells have to, in some sense, perceive
themselves and their environment, because
their environment is an essential part of their
existence, governing what they are and what
they can become. To understand the nature of
cellular perception, we have to look beyond exist-
ing descriptions of what cells are.

In plants, the fibrous, cellulose-based walls
between cells don’t prevent all interactions
between cells, but they do keep the cells from
wandering, and they act as stable regulators of the
cells’ functions. Animal cells also have a
carbohydrate-rich layer surrounding them, which

powerfully regulates their functions, but this layer
is much more adjustable than the cellulose frame-
work of plants.

The chemical and structural plasticity of this
intercellular material is an essential part of the
greater sensitivity and complexity of animals, and
while it is now conventional to describe this
material as part of a signalling and regulatory
system, I think it might also be appropnate to
think of it as part of the cell’s sensory system. It
forms a buffer zone around a cell that is strongly
conditioned by the cell’s own activity, and when
this zone is altered by the presence of another cell,
or when tts composition changes because of injury
or infection, the influence from that buffer zone
has to change processes in the cell. For example,
if we compare these layers to a film of soap
around a drop of oil, the surface tension--and
therefore the shape—can change radically
under the influence of physical and chemical
agents, such as temperature, salts or acids.

The forces inside cells that contribute to their
shape, interact with external forces and with inter-
nal and external chemical reactions. The compo-
sition of the extracellular matrix is now known to
have a profound regulatory influence on the cell's
genes. The cell's "phenotype" (our phenotype is
what we appear to be) is regulated by the extracel-
lular matrix, in combination with a variety of
hormonal, nutrititional, and metabaic factors.

A DIFFERENT PHYSICS

In the study of cohesion, adsorption, radiation,
diffraction, and resonance, there has been a strong
tendency to avoid questions of the "ensemble," in
favor of the unique, or at most double, event or
Situation--one or two atoms or molecules, one or
two frequencies--and beyond that, to describe
things with "statistical, stochastic, colligative”
assumptions and methods. Crystallography is an
attempt to understand ensembles of atoms or
molecules, but it represents the opposite extreme
of abstraction, letting geometry replace concrete
data about events in time and place. What has
always been left out is the way in which long
range order interacts with local, and delocalized,
energy. There have been observations with

relevance to these issues, but they have been "left
out" because they were “anomalous.”

These interactions of the parts of an ensemble
over distances many times greater than the size of
an atom are of special importance for biology;
they are where we find all the most interesting
questions in biology.

The way the various “anomalies” fit together
is a matter for a general revision of science, but in
biology, the work of Alexander Rothen gives us
a tool for beginning to make sense of some of
the realities of biology that have seldom been
thought about.

When I began studying biology at the Univer-
sity of Oregon, the bulletin board near the
electron microscope room displayed some photo-
graphs of crystals that professor Bajer had been
making. One of them showed a quartz crystal,
over which a thin film of plastic had been coated.
On top of the plastic film sodium atoms had been
deposited, showing that they were being aligned
in a pattern conforming to that of the underlying
quartz crystal. The film was much thicker than
the units of silicon dioxide in the underlying
crystal, so the arrangement of the sodium atoms
was obviously not being determined by either the
position of the plastic polymer molecules, or the
relatively remote individual silicon and oxygen
atoms below the film, but somehow by a projec-
tion of the pattern of the quartz crystal. Order had
been projected through the disordered layer of
polymer.

Earlier, I had read some of Michael Polanyi's
work with long-range effects in crystals, and knew
about his adsorption work, in which the adsorp-
tive force of the underlying charcoal was able to
make itself felt through several layers of atoms,
continuing to cause more atoms to condense from
the gas phase. Later, multilayer adsorption was
explained as the result of electronic resonance.

Rothen, using the techniques he had invented
for measuring the thickness of extremely thin
films, found that metal-plated glass slides, coated
with albumin, would bind multiple layers of
antibodies which were specific for the albumin.
Or, before the slide was exposed to antibodies, it
could be coated with a plastic (Formvar) film 120
Angstrom units thick, and still, layers of

fe
antibodies up to 80 Angstroms thick could be
adsorbed.

Polanyi's multilayer adsorption was consid-
ered impossible by the leading physicists of the
time, but the simple idea of electronic resonance
eventually made it possible for them to accept the
facts. But Rothen's adsorption of multilayers of
immunologically specific proteins was Just too
much.

A couple of years after I had seen Bajer's
micrographs, I asked him about them, and he said
he didn't remember; already, the opinion makers
in science had reacted to experiments in which
cells appeared to be "feeling" an artificially
constructed gradient through a plastic film, by
claiming that photographs had revealed tiny
holes in the films, and the cells had been reach-
ing through the holes and feeling the gradient
directly. The cheating cells (like mind-readers
who peek through their blindfolds) had been

“exposed,” and all the long-range trans-
membrane phenomena had fallen into
disrepute.

Even if the cells were "cheating" by reaching
through holes in the film, the fact that they could
sense the direction of the gradient, and move
consistently “up the gradient," was never
challenged, and it wasn't explained how reaching
through the plastic could allow them to evaluate
the gradient on the basis of a few samples--that in
itself might require a more complicated explana-
tion than the original idea, sensing the gradient
through a film, required. The meaning of this
episode is that the most influential scientists will
seize even an irrelevant criticism as an excuse for
ridiculing ideas that violate their dogma.

But pores in plastic films, that cells might
poke their fingers through, had no conceivable
relevance to Rothen's work (nor to Bajer's).
Rothen's technique could measure the thickness
of the layers of antibodies, and show that they
were continuous layers, several antibodies
thick. Antibodies to albumin aren’t supposed to
bind to themselves. The technique was so simple
that a physicist visited Rothen’s lab, learned his
technique, and then claimed to have invented it as
a method for simplifying immunological testing.
But he wanted only the commercial value of

Rothen's discovery, and ignored its essential
importance.
Rothen’s specific long-range adsorption, like

Polanyi’s earlier work, simply couldn’t be
responded to in a rational way. A rational
response might have been to reason this way: If
the organization of the underlying material
projects itself strongly into the environment, then
patterns in the environment must also make
themselves felt in the underlying material. The
same mechanism would amount to an action and a
perception.

There were fields such as metallurgy, in which
long-range forces, and the effects of surfaces on
crystal structure, were “normal science,” but in
biology, physics had been reduced to the ideas
that were dominant in 1915.

The conformation of a large molecule is part
of its biological or immunological specificity.
The specificity of conformation of any molecule
must participate in the specific nature of the
ensemble, and that of the ensemble, in the
individual molecule. For example, certain
enzyme molecules are known to arrange
themselves one way in the cytoplasm, and
another, random way when they are examined in
the unnatural environment of biochemist's
test-tube.

Since Polanyi’s multilayer adsorption was
explained as a resonance phenomenon, the same
term could be applied to Rothen’s specific adsorp-
tion, without implying that we understand exactly
how it works.

Rothen also showed that enzymes can act
across the films. To me, the main importance of
this would be to highlight the extent to which an
archaic physical view has governed biochemical
thinking. The action of an enzyme at a distance
means that its catalytic region might be larger
than previously supposed, but it also suggests that
we can’t generalize from the behavior of an
enzyme dissolved in water, to its behavior in the
cell, where it would be subject to the reciprocal
effects of many other components of the complex
system. Biochemists have claimed that “biochem-
istry couldn’t exist if you doubted that the
function of enzymes in solution is identical to the
function of enzymes in the cell,” but other

biochemists have demonstrated that some of the
most basic assumptions of biochemistry were
mistaken (Bernhard, 1988), including the
assumption that the enzymes of glycolysis act
on substrates that are floating around in
solution.

Digestive enzymes, added to a solution
containing the food materials normally digested in
the intestine by those enzymes, failed to alter the
food materials at a rate that could be compared to
that of normal digestion. But when a
formalehyde-fixed piece of intestine was added to
the mixture, the reactions occurred at approxi-
mately the rate that is normal for digestion.
Although in young infants digestion does happen
in the fluid contents of the intestine, after the age
of one, most of the action of the digestive
enzymes occurs at or near the surface of the intes-
tine, under the influence of the adsorbed enzymes.
This is another clear example of the idea that
enzymes are dependent on their environment.

Whether or not cells are able to “feel” what is
beneath a plastic film, recent evidence indicates
that the thickness and composition of the material
they sit on does make a difference. Their genes
are tured on by the structures that are sensed in
the extracellular matrix, and the longevity,
growth, function and death of the cells are deter-
mined by the nature of the substances outside the
cell.

The implication of much current research is
that if all of the specific protein filaments can be
identified that form links between the structural
filaments inside cells and the matrix materials
outside the cells, the powerful influence of the
extemal matrix on the cells’ functions will
somehow be explained without having to think in
terms of physical ensembles. "This protein on
one side of the [imaginary] cell membrane tugs
on a protein on the other side," and then maybe
the little homunculus who counts molecules will
decide the time is right for him to carry a
message to the correct gene to turn it on.

It is probably true that a general picture can be
completed after all of the details are present, but it
isn't necessarily true that the specific interpreta-
tion will be meaningful. But at the present, we

can see some of the meanings of the interaction
between matrix and cell.

MUCUS, MUCINS, AND MYOPIA

The importance of carbon dioxide for respira-
tion has been established, and its essentiality for
even single-celled organisms has been reported.
Whenever there is respiration, carbon dioxide is
produced. By maintaining the effective concen-
tration of Krebs cycle material, it protects the
efficiency of respiration. Carbon dioxide is very
soluble in water, but it is even more soluble in
living tissue, so soluble that it will move from a
low concentration in bath water into the body,
where its concentration is already much higher.

Its high concentration in bone is not usually
appreciated, but calcium carbonate is the form in
which calcium is first deposited in new bone.
Carbon dioxide reacts spontaneously with
ammonia, and with other amines. The reaction of
ammonia with carbon dioxide is the first step in
the formation of urea, protecting against the
potential toxicity of ammonia. Proteins probably
bind a little more carbon dioxide on their amino
groups than the amount that dissolves in a similar
quantity of water, but biologists generally talk
only about the carbamino content of hemoglobin,
since the binding of carbon dioxide to this protein
regulates the blood's ability to deliver oxygen to
the tissues.

Carbon dioxide strongly influences the way in
which water interacts with proteins, and it partici-
pates in the ability of tron-binding molecules to
carry iron.

Although carbon dioxide probably associates
with most of the amino groups in the body, only a
few of these reactions have been studied. For
example, it is known to bind to insulin, affecting
its conformation. I think this is likely to explain
some of the effects of the thyroid hormone in
diabetes, since thyroid increases the production of
carbon dioxide.

Mucins, or mucopolysaccharides, are combi-
nations of proteins and polysacchandes, which
make up a large part of the extracellular matnx;
the blood-type substances are mucopolysaccha-
rides, as are chondroitin and hyaluronic acid. The

?
carbohydrate chains of the mucins are made up of
alternating sugars and amino sugars. When the
amino groups are free, they will tend to associate
with carbon dioxide, and so the way they interact
with water, with each other, and with proteins,
will be modified according to the amount of
carbon dioxide present.

The simplest way to visualize the effect of
carbon dioxide on mucopolysaccharides is to
think of its action as an expectorant, in which it
decreases the viscosity of bronchial mucus, allow-
ing it to be reabsorbed or expelled. Since iodide
also has a long history of use as an expectorant,
we should compare the effects of carbon dioxide
and carbonic acid with the effects of iodide in
other situations.

The transparent structures of the eye are inter-
esting places for considering the effects of carbon
dioxide. I think carbon dioxide has a role in
maintaining the clarity of the lens, as I discussed
in the cataracts newsletter, by preventing
swelling. The connective tissues of the eye's
sclera and comea are rich in
mucopolysaccharides, and the vitreous body and
the aqueous humor are very much like more dilute
solutions of the same materials--the cornea is the
most dense, and the aqueous Is the most dilute.
The fluidity of the aqueous is important because it
circulates nutrients and oxygen from the blood, to
sustain the lens and the cornea. The individual
molecules in the aqueous are larger than those in
the vitreous, but because there are fewer of them,
the aqueous isn't very viscous. If carbon dioxide
affects these molecules as it does the mucins in
the bronchial secretions, then we can infer that it
is important in maintaining the fluidity of the
aqueous humor; this would suggest that
hypothyroidism, leading to a substitution of
lactic acid for carbon dioxide, might contribute
to the development of glaucoma by increasing
the viscosity of the aqueous humor.

Among mountain climbers, it has been
reported that after staying several hours at a very
high altitude, there is a decrease in the degree of
myopia. Because of the Haldane-Bohr effect, in
which carbon dioxide is retained when less
oxygen is available, I think the high altitude effect
on myopia involves a condensation of the

connective tissue. In experimenters wearing gas
tight goggles, and in scraped comeas kept in
tissue culture, carbon dioxide has been found to
have an anti-swelling effect on the cornea.

When rats have their thyroid glands removed,
they become nearsighted, but if their pituitary
glands are removed at the same time, they don't

develop myopia. Hypothyroidism is classically
associated with "myxedema," in which the tissues
become overloaded with the glycoproteins or
mucins. Several pituitary hormones are known to
stimulate the overproduction of mucins.

In several of my classes, I asked students if
they remembered when they became nearsighted.
Although puberty is the usual time for myopia to
begin, several girls mentioned that they had
needed glasses within a month of beginning the
oral contraceptive pill, and some of them found
that their vision returned to normal when they
stopped the pill, or began using thyroid supple-
ments. High prolactin (associated with high estro-
gen or low thyroid) may be one of the factors in
myopia.

Another experimental method for producing
myopia is to cover the eye of a growing animal, or
to keep the animal in constant darkness. In
darkness, the eye grows larger than normal,
causing the refractive error of myopia, and the
sclera is soft and weak. Since stimulated nerves
consume oxygen and emit carbon dioxide, I think
darkness might mimic hypothyroidism, allowing
the connective tissues to swell.

The sea cucumber has been used to study the
physical properties of connective tissue, and it has
been found that certain salts tend to soften the
connective tissues, but that iodide doesn't. The
well-established use of todide to resolve granulo-
mas, even when it doesn't eliminate the infectious
agent, might suggest that it is protecting against
something which is disrupting the connective
tissue structure.

The only publications I have seen that
presented clear evidence of the disappearance of
arteriosclerosis involved treatment with iodides.
In the retina, blood vessels can be seen to return
to their normal appearance following a course of
iodide treatment. Besides its possible direct
effects on the mucins, iodide might help to

eliminate calcium from the walls of blood vessels,
since calcium iodide ts very soluble.

In aging, connective tissue becomes hardened
by chemical cross-linking of the large molecules.
If amino groups are well saturated with carbon
dioxide, this type of reaction should be inhibited.
(Carbon dioxide also inhibits the production of
free radicals, which are involved in some types of
cross-linking reactions.) The waterlogged condi-
tion seen during shock or stress in blood vessels,
lungs, and other organs, and the edema of the
brain and cataracts of the lenses that follow
metabolic impairments of various sorts, seem to
involve the uptake of "free" water, at the same
time that "bound" (unfreezable) water is lost.
Carbon dioxide seems to promote the retention of
bound water, and protects against the edematous
conditions. The swelling of muscles during
hypoxic stress probably represents the basic
process, in which lactic acid and pH increase,
while CO2 is lost.

Whatever the cell's "membrane" structure may
be, Rothen's demonstration of the deep interac-
tions of adjacent layers showed that the conditions
on either side of the surface of a cell are very
sensitive to conditions on the other side.

Since the mucopolysaccharides regulate cell
division, cell shape and motility, cell longevity
and cell death, and carbon dioxide has very
powerful structural effects on the mucopolysac-
charides, the cell, by producing carbon dioxide, is
stabilizing its regulatory framework, the extracel-
lular matrix, at the same time that it stabilizes the
intracellular proteins and systems of metabolism..

The thyroid hormone is the most important
promoter of carbon dioxide formation.

REFERENCES

“Immunologic reactions carried out at high altitude at a
liquid-solid interface,” Rothen A, Baer A, Physiol Chem
Phys, 1981, 13:1, 25-7.

“Daily periodicity in the activity of a slide used to
perform immunologic reactions at a liquid-solid interface,”
Rothen A, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S$ A, 1975 Jun, 72:6,
2462-4. “Nickel-plated slides were prepared by evaporating
a nickel layer (congruent to 4000 A thick) on glass slides in
the presence of a magnetic field whose lines of force were
perpendicular to the surface of the slides. Such slides are
called active. After being coated with a layer of bovine

albumin, they could absorb a layer of antibodies 70-80 A
thick. However, if the active slides before they were coated
with bovine serum albumin, were submitted to a magnetic
field with lines of force parallel to the surface, the layer of
antibodies absorbed was only 40 A thick. They had become
inactive. It has been found that slides remain active at night
but that shortly after sunrise they become slowly inactivated
and reach a minimum in their activity at exactly the midday
period. They regain full activity at sunset. It is shown that the
inactivation results from a solar radiation that can be stopped
by 3.5 cm of lead. On December 13th, 1974 there was an
eclipse of the sun with 65% occultation at noon (Daylight
Saving Time). The activity of the slide at noon was 65% of
the maximum activity (83 A) observed before sunrise. The
thickness of the adsorbed layer of antibodies were 75 A
instead of 63 A observed in the absence of the eclipse. The
activation of the slides originates in a radiation of non-solar
origin that is adsorbed by 1 can of lead.”

“Immunologic and enzymatic reactions carried out at a
liquid-solid interface,” Rothen A, Biophys J, 1973 Apr,
13:4, 402-4,

“Immunocelectroadsorption. The fundamentals of the
immunoelectroadsorption method,” Rothen A, Mathot C,
Immunochemistry, 1969 Mar, 6:2, 241-51.

“Adsorptions of purified serum proteins on metalized
glass slides and their significance for the immunoelectroad-
sorption method,” Mathot C, Rothen A, J Colloid Inter-
face Sci, 1969 Sep, 31:1, 51-60. “Tryptic action across a
membrane. Rothen A, Physiol Chem Phys, 1979, 11:6,
481-9. Tryptic action occurs when a layer of bovine serum
albumin adsorbed on a nickel-plated slide and protected by a
Formvar membrane 120 A thick 1s treated with dilute trypsin
solution, But experimental evidence indicates that the trypsin
molecules do not cross the membrane. Thus the proposal
that trypsin can exert its enzymatic action without intimate
contact with the substrate, first set forth in 1948 but later
abandoned in favor of a “forced diffusion" hypothesis,
now appears the correct interpretation. Analogously,
antibodies can be specifically immobilized on one side of a
membrane separating them from adsorbed antigens located
on the other side.”

Y.Mitsui, et al., “Cell surface changes in senescent and
Wemer’s syndrome fibroblasts: Their role in cell
proliferation,” Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 190, 567-585, 1985.
“Cell surface is known to participate in the regulation of cell
proliferation through interaction with adjacent cell surfaces
or the extracellular matrix, or both.” “We here examined,.y
vitro and in ‘vivo, alterations of the cell-surface properties of
Wemer’s syndrom cells and aging human fibroblasts.
Cell-surface negative charges, examined by electrophoretic
mobility of dispersed single cells in buffer, were seen to
decline steadily as a function of cumulative population
doublings.” “...the cell-surface negative charges were

f
attributable to sialic acid, chondroitin sulphates, hyaluronic

acid, and heparan sulphate.” “Cell growth was inhibited
40% when the fibroblasts were cultured on the fixed sheets
of late passage cells. Treatment of the fixed cell sheets with
heparitinase or nitrous acid resulted in complete recomvery
from the growth inhibition. Cell growth on sheets of fixed
cells derived from young, middle, and senescent fibrobiasts
showed that the surface of the senescent cells had the
greatest inhibitory effect. These inhibitory effects of fixed
cell sheets correlated well with both the amount of heparan
sulphate relative to the total GAGs on the surface and to the
saturation density of cell crowth at each passage. These
findings strongly suggest that heparan sulphate, or its
complex, on the cell surface in involved in the regulation of
cell proliferation.”

“The intracellular equilibrium thermodynamic and
steady-state concentrations of metabolites,” Berhard SA,
Institute of Molecular Biology, University of Oregon,
Eugene 97403. Cell Biophys, 1988 Jan-Jun, 12:, 119-32 “A
new model for the organization and flow of metabolites
through a metabolic pathway ts presented. The model is
based on four major findings. (1) The intracellular concentra-
tions of enzyme sites exceed the concentrations of intermedi-
ary metabolites that bind specifically to these sites. (2) The
concentration of the excessive enzyme sites in the cell is
sufficiently high so that nearly all the cellular intermediary
metabolites are enzyme-bound. (3) Enzyme conformations
are perturbed by the interactions with substrates and
products; the conformations of enzyme-substrate and
enzyme-product complexes are different. (4) Two enzymes,
catalyzing reactions that are sequential in a metabolic
pathway, transfer the common metabolite back and forth via
an enzyme-enzyme complex without the intervention of the
solvent environment. The model proposes that the enzyme-
enzyme recognition is ligand-induced. Conversion of E2S
and E2P results in the loss of recognition of E2 by El and
the concomitant recognition of E2 by E3. This model
substantially alters existent views of the bioenergetics and the
kinetics of intracellular metabolism. The rates of direct trans-
fer of metabolite from enzyme to enzyme are comparable to
the rates of interconversion between substrate and product
within an individual enzyme. Consequently, intermediary
metabolites are nearly equipartitioned among their high-
affinity enzyme sites within a metabolic pathway. Metabolic
flux involves the direct transfer of metabolite from enzyme to
enzyme via a set of low and nearly equal energy barriers.”

Cytoarchitecture and cell growth control. Slack JK;
Higgins PJ Cell Motil Cytoskeleton, 1996, 33:2, 83-7
Appropriate cell-to-substrate adhesion together with SGF
stimulation is mecessary to initiate and continue cell cycle
progression of growth arrested cells. Adhesion-
dependent signaling events, which likely occur through
integrin receptors specifically organized with cytoskeletal
components within focal contacts, can induce expression
of specific genes and stimulate quiescent cells into the
growth cycle. The mechanisms as to how: (1)

cell-to-substrate adhesion complexes are formed and
maintained, (2) adhesion-dependent signal transduction
events interface with SGF initiated signalling events, (3)
adhesion influences expression of growth-state regulated
genes, and (4) an appropnate cytoarchitectural environ-
ment may coordinate these events to regulate cellular
growth are unclear. While it is apparent that defining these
mechanisms would be critical to understanding the basic
events which control cell growth, many of the mechanisms
are just beginning to be addressed and understood.”

“Three-dimensional analysis of the substrate-dependent
invasive behavior of a human lung tumor cell line with a
confocal laser scanning microscope,” Strohmaier AR; Spring
H; Spiess E Biomedizinische Strukturforschung (0195),
Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, Heidelberg, Germany.
Histochem Cell Biol, 1996 Mar, 105:3, 179-85 Matngel and
collagen G gels were used as models for basement membrane
and interstitial space-collagen, respectively, to study the
invasive behavior of cells of the human lung tumor cell line
EPLC 32Mi, which was derived from a squamous cell carci-
noma. For three dimensional analysis of the invasive process,
cells were seeded onto the gels in a slide chamber and
observed with a confocal laser scanning microscope. Optical
sectioning in the xy and xz directions and image reconstruc-
tion with computer programs allowed us readily to obtain a
three-dimensional overview of the invasive process in situ.
Both types of gel showed a smooth surface. Matrigel had a
granular structure whereas collagen G revealed a fiber-like
morphology. The tumor cells showed a matrix-dependent
behavior. On Matrigel, within 24 h of incubation, a network
of cells appeared on the surface, which developed further
within 72 h to interconnected multicellular cords also invad-
ing the gel. Tumor cells seeded on collagen G remained
individual. They formed pseudopodia and achieved tight
contact with the matrix, eventually also invading the gels in a
time-dependent manner. Therefore, the composition of the
substrate crucially influences the invasion path,"

“Medulation of protein tyrosine phosphorylation by the
extracellular matrix,” Corbett SA; Schwarzbauer JE J Surg
Res, 1997 Apr, 69:1, 220-5 Fibronectin (FN) cross-linked to
fibrin following injury provides the provisional matrix
required for cells to begin tissue repair. Our previous work
has demonstrated that fibroblasts adherent to multimeric FN
within the context of a fibrin matrix (FN-fibrin) exhibit clear
phenotypic differences from those adherent to a dimeric
FN-coated surface. We hypothesize that this response to
multimeric FN may be mediated by altered protein tyrosine
phosphatase activity following integrin activation. Methods:
NIH 373 cells were plated in the presence or absence of
pervanadate (PV), a phosphotyrosine phosphatase inhibitor,
on wells coated with FN or FN-fibrin matrix. Spread cell
areas were measured after increasing incubation times and
are recorded as mean cell area (mm2) +/- SEM.
Altematively, cells were lysed and equal amounts of protein
were analyzed by immunoblot using a monoclonal antibody

specific for phosphotyrosine. Results: PV significantly inhib-
ited cell spreading on FN-fibrin matrices. In contrast, PV
treatment had little effect on cell area on FN alone. Analysis
of cell lysates revealed that protein tyrosine phosphoryla-
tion events differ in a substrate-dependent manner.
Conclusion: Cell attachment to a FN-fibrin matrix
induces distinct cell shape and cytoskeletal organization.
Inactivation of tyrosine-specific phosphatases enhances this
distinction and inhibits the spreading of cells attached to this
substrate. The phosphotyrosyl protein content of treated
cells on FN-fibrin matrix is also diminished. These results
suggest that cell-extracellular matrix interactions affect
the tyrosine phosphorylation balance of the cell, thus
modifying cytoskeletal organization and related signaling
events.”

“Inhibition of anchorage-dependent cell spreading
triggers apoptosis in cultured human endothelial cells,”
Re F; Zanetti A; Sironi M; Polentarutti N; Lanfrancone L;
Dejana E; Colotta F Borgomainerio, Milano, Italy. J Cell
Biol, 1994 Oct, 127:2, 537-46 When cultivated on
substrates that prevent cell adhesion (the polymer polyhy-
droxyethylmethacrylate, bovine serum albumin, and Teflon),
human endothelial cells (EC) rapidly lost viability with a half-
life of approximately 10 h. Dying EC showed the morpho-
logical and biochemical characteristics of apoptosis. The
apoptotic process of suspended EC was delayed by the
protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. To obtain informa-
tion as to the mechanism involved in the apoptosis of
suspended EC, we investigated whether adhesion to matrix
proteins or integrin occupancy in EC retaining a round
shape may affect EC suicide. EC bound to low coating
concentration of either fibronectin or vitronectin, retaining
a round shape and failing to organize actin microfila-
ments, underwent to rapid cell death; by contrast, cells on
high substrate concentrations became flattened, showed
actin microfilament organization, and retained viability.
Addition of saturating amounts of soluble vitronectin to
suspended round-shaped EC did not reduce the process of
apoptosis. Finally, when suspended EC bound Gly-Arg-Gly-
Asp-Ser-coated microbeads (approximately 10
mucrobeads/ceil), yet retaining a round shape, the apoptotic
process was not affected. Oncogene-transformed EC in
suspension were less susceptible to cell death and apoptosis
than normal EC. Overall, these data indicate that cell attach-
ment to matrix or integrin binding per se is not sufficient for
maintaining cell viability, and that cells need to undergo
some minimal degree of shape change to survive. Modulation
of interaction with the extracellular matrix can, therefore, be
an important target for the control of angiogenesis.

"EFFECT OF CARBON DIOXIDE ON THE
THERMODYNAMIC STATE OF WATER IN COLLA-
GEN," JOURNAL OF FOOD SCIENCE 53(4). 1212-1215,
1988. "Thermodynamic activities of polar sites of collagen in
the presence of CO2 were observed by inverse gas chroma-
tographic techniques using water as a probe. The interactions

between collagen and the water probe were evaluated by
determining the specific retention volume (Vg.degree.) and
partition coefficient (Kp) at 25.degree. C, 30.degree. C, and
35.degree. C. Thermodynamic parameters were determined
from thése data. CO2 exhibited a significant effect on the
water binding of collagen as shown by increased Vg degree.
and Kp values as compared to N2- and He-treated collagen.
The thermodynamic parameters of partial molar Gibb's free
energy...partial molar  enthalpy...and partial molar
entropy...indicated CO2 = significantly increased the
average energy of water binding by collagen."

Kinetics of decreased LPS-stimulated cytokine release
by macrophages exposed to CO2. West MA: Baker J;
Bellingham J, J Surg Res, 1996 Jun, 63:1, 269-74. “The
mechanisms responsible for the lack of inflammation
after laparoscopic surgery remain unknown. Peritoneal
macrophages (M phi) incubated in carbon dioxide (CO2)
but not air or helium (He), had significant, reversible
inhibition of lipopotysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated tumor
necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) release. In
these experiments the kinetics of these CO2-induced altera-
tions in cytokine secretion were examined. Murine perito-
neal Mphi were stimulated with LPS for 4 hr and incubated
in different test gases (95% air/5%
CO2,80%C02/20%02,80% He/20% O02) for intervals
between 0.25 and 4 hr. Time between gas incubation and
LPS stimulation was varied to determine the persistence of
CO2 inhibition. Parallel M phi groups received LPS stimula-
tion 24 hr later. Supernatant TNF and IL-1 were measured
by bioassay and polymerase chain reaction was used to
examine cytokine mRNA. Significant reversible inhibition of
TNF and IL-1 was seen with COZ, but not He or air. Inhibi-
tion of IL-1 occurred 15 min after CO2 exposure, was
associated with decreased IL-1 mRNA, and was rapidly lost
following incubation in the control atmosphere. TNF imhibi-
tion was seen despite normal levels of TNF message,
required more than 30 min of CO2 exposure, and persisted
after CO2 removal. CO2 produced profound, reversible,
inhibition of LPS-stimulated cytokine release by perito-
neal Mphi. The transient inability to secrete inflamma-
tory cytokines after CO2 exposure may explain the lack
of systemic inflammation after laparoscopic surgery with
coz."

"Do plasma and serum have different abilities to
promote cell growth?" Gospodarowicz D; Ill CR Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A, 1980 May, 77:5, 2726-30 "The abilities of
plasma and serum to support the growth of vascular smooth
muscle cells maintained on uncoated tissue culture dishes or
dishes coated with an extracellular matrix (ECM) have been
compared. Vascular smooth muscle cells maintained on
plastic dishes and exposed to plasma proliferate poorly, when
exposed to serum they proliferate actively. Addition of fibro-
blast growth factor (FGF) incrases the growth rate of the
cultures in both cases. In contrast, when vascular smooth
muscle cells are maintained on an ECM, they proliferate

equally well exposed to either plasma or serum. Because the
cultures had an average doubling time (15 hr) that was
already at a minimum, FGF no longer had an effect on vascu-
lar smooth muscle cell proliferation.” "These results raise the
possibility that the lack of response of vascular smooth
muscle cells, as well as that of other cell types in vitro, to
plasma factors is not an intrinsic property of the cells but
is rather due to the substrate upon which the cells rest.
Because cells maintained on an ECM respoad to plasma
factors, it is likely that the close contact of the cells with
the ECM restores their sensitivity to physiological
factors present in plasma."

"Factors controlling the proliferative rate, final cell
density, and life span of bovine vascular smooth muscle cells
in culture," Gospodarowicz D; Hirabayashi K; Giguere L;
Tauber JP J Cell Biol, 1981 Jun, 89:3, 568-78 "Low density
vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cell cultures maintained on
extracellular-matnix(ECM)-coated dishes and plated in the
presence of either plasma or serum will proliferate actively
when serum-containing medium is replaced by a synthetic
medium supplemented with three factors: high density
lipoprotein (HDL, 250 micrograms protein/ml); insulin (2.5
micrograms/ml) or somatomedin C (10 ng/ml); and fibroblast
growth factor (FGF, 100 ng/ml) or epidermal growth factor
(EGF, 50 ng/ml). The omission of any of these three factors
from the synthetic medium results in a lower growth rate of
the cultures, as well as in a lower final cell density once
cultures reach confluence. When cells are plated in the total
absence of serum, transferrin (10 micrograms/ml) is also
required to induce optimal cell growth. The effects of the
substrate and medium supplements on the life span of VSM
cultures have also been analyzed. Cultures maintained on
plastic and exposed to medium supplemented with 5%
bovine serum underwent 15 generations. However, when
maintained on ECM-coated dishes the serum-fed
cultures had a life span of at least 88 generations.
Likewise, when cultures were maintained in a synthetic
medium supplemented with HDL and either FGF or EGF, an
effect on the tissue culture life span by the substrate was
observed. Cultures maintained on plastic underwent 24
generations, whereas those maintained on ECM-coated
dishes could be passaged repeatedly for 58 generations.
These experiments demonstrate the influence of the
ECM-substrate only in promoting cell growth but also in
increasing the longevity of the cultures."

"Determination of cellular shape by the extracellular
matrix and its correlation with the control of cellular
growth." Gospodarowicz D; Greenburg G; Birdwell CR
Cancer Res, 1978 Nov, 38:11 Pt 2, 4155-71 “Although the
problem of cellular proliferation may seem at first glance
to be tremendously complex, the mechanisms which
control it may be extremely simple. One of the primary
factors which regulates the mitogenic respoxse of a given
cell type to a given class of mitogenic agents seems to be
the cellular shape. We have found that comeal epithelial

cells, for example, adopt a flattened configuration when
maintained in vitro on plastic and are very sensitive to fibro-
blast growth factor, but not to epidermal growth factor.
When maintained on collagen, on the other hand, they
become tall and columnar and respond primarily to epidermal
growth factor. The cellular shape is dictated in vivo by the
extracellular material upon which the cells rest and in vitro
by the substrate upon which the cells are maintained. The
substrate itself may, in tum, induce the cells to manufacture
their extracellular material and specific cell surface proteins
which control the cellular shape."

"The control of mammalian cell proliferation by growth
factors, basement lamina, and lipoproteins. Gospodarowicz
D J Invest Dermatol, 1983 Jul, 81:1 Suppl, 40s-50s "The
effect of growth factors Such as fibroblast growth factor on
the production of a basement lamina by cultured endothelial
cells has been investigated. The ability of these cells to grow
and differentiate properly correlated with their ability to
produce a basement lamina. The effect of such a substrate on
the growth, differentiation, and aging of cells in vitro, as well
as its use for the long-term culture of either normal diploid
cells or tumor cells, is reviewed.

Effect of high and low density lipoproteins on prolifera-
tion of cultured bovine vascular endothelial ceils.” Tauber JP;
Cheng J; Gospodarowicz D J Clin Invest, 1980 Oct, 66:4,
696-708 "Bovine vascular endothelial cells maintained on
dishes coated with an extracellular matrix and exposedto
medium supplemented with lipoprotein-deficient serum
(LPDS) require the presence of lipoprotein to proliferate
optimally. High density lipoprotein (HDL) seems to be the
major factor involved in the proliferation of vascular
endothelial cells. This is mostly due to its lack of toxicity
when added at high concentration, as well as to its nonde-
pendence on LPDS to exhibit its mitogenic properties.
Therefore, HDL hysiological concentrations (1,000--1,500
microgram protein/ml) can fully replace serum. Low density
lipoprotein, unlike HDL, has a biphasic effect. Although
mitogenic for vascular endothelial cells when added at low
concentration, once physiological concentrations are reached
it becomes toxic for the cells. Moreover, and in contrast with
HDL, the mitogenic effect of low density lipoprotein was
found to be a function of the LPDS concentration to which
cultures were exposed. The substrate upon which cultures
are maintained has been found to be an important factor if a
mitogenic effect of HDL is to be observed. When maintained
on plastic, cells proliferate poorly in response to HDL unless
fibroblast growth factor is added to the medium. In
contrast, when maintained on extracellular matrix, an
optimal growth rate is induced by HDL, even in the
absence of fibroblast growth factor. This suggests that, in
vivo, the integrity of the basement membrane upon
which endothelial cells rest and migrate is an important
factor in determining the cells response to lipoproteins
present in plasma. "

, (¥
