by Fr. Richard Wilhelm
Spotlight Newspaper

Dr. Horst Keif is curing AIDS victims
in the Munich area of West Germany, by
hyperoxygenating their blood with ozone,
which destroys the AIDS virus on contact.

The same basic process appears to be
also effective against hepatitis, herpes,
the Epstein Barr virus and the
cytomegalovirus, as well as providing a
simple method of purifying stored blood
and blood components, and
preoxygenating blood to ba transfused.
Some of the medical uses of ozone have

| been appreciated for years in Europe and
elsewhere but are still relatively
unknown in the United States.

The treatment itself is remarkably
simple: The ozone is produced by forcing
oxygen through a metal tube carrying a
300-volt charge. A pint of blood is drawn
from the patient and placed in an infusion

| bottle. The ozone is then forced into the
bottle and thoroughly mixed in by
shaking gently, whereupon the blood
turns bright red.

As the ozone molecules dissolve into
the blood they give up their third oxygen
atom, releasing considerable energy,
which inactivates al) lipid-envelope virus
while leaving blood cella unharmed.

Ozone overcomes AIDS virus by a
fundamentally different process than

burdening the liver and immune system
with more elaborate toxic substances,
ozone simply oxidizes the moleculesin the

spreading.

Tt also oxygenates the blood to a
greater degree than is usually reached,
what with poor air and sluggish breathing

Two of the best articles on AIDS that I
have read are by Katie Leishman in The
Atlantic (August, 1987 and January,
1988). In the earlier article, she discussed
some of the poorly publicized alternative
theories nbout the cause of the disease,
and presented some of the arguments
about the method of transmission,
especially about lice. In the January
article, she concentrates on the
association between AIDS and syphilis.

usually attempted with drugs. Instead of

shell of the virus, rendering it incapable of

European AIDS Research Ignored

hebits. The treated blood is then given back
tothe patients. This treatmentis given from
twice a week to twice a day, depending on
how advanced the disease is. The
strengthened blaod confers some of its
virucidal properties to the rest of the
patient's blood ag it disperses,

The disease wil] not return, as long as
the patient maintains hie blood in an
oxygen-positive state, through proper
breathing, exercise and diet.

Research Ignored

The major U.S. news media and the
medica] Establishment seem to be ignoring
this line of research. Meanwhile hundreds
of millions of doliars are being spent to “try
to find a cure,” which supposedly won't be
available for years, if ever.

Once AIDS is diagnosed, “it means
death,” insists American Medical
Association (AMA) President Dr. John J.
Coury. “There ig no cure...and no
immunization.”

He also mentioned that each case brings
tha medical industry another $40,000 ta
$150,000, or 40 to 150 million do}lars from
every thousand victims. Of course, that’s
totally unconnected with the AMA's silence
about the AIDS cases cured with ozone.

Apparently the lone exception to the
medical Fatablishment’s overall) lack of
interest in this promising breakthrough ig
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
approval of the Medizone Co.'s tests on
ozone blood treatment.

The New York-based company obtained
an “investigative new drug” approval for
ozone, which falls under the heading of
“drugs” even though it isn’t. Their recantly
completed animal tasta have demonstrated

Ray Peat's Newsletter

AIDS /Syphilis Treatments

Leishman quotes the argument of Jean
McKenna, of Berkeley, that the AIDS-
associated virus, HIV, is a by-product of the
disease, rather than its cause, and that it
probably only infecta yomeone who ig
already immunosuppressed. Reading the
older scientific lIterature, McKenna
learned that both Kaposi’s sareams and
pneumocystic carinii pneumonia had been
associated with syphilis.

Townsend Letter for Doctors June 1988

no indication of toxicity, at 10 times tha
equivalent amount that is proposed for
human treatment.

Medizone wes granted U.S. Patent No.
4,632,980 on December 30, 1986, on
“inactivating lipid-envelope viruses in
blood that is returned to a mammalian
host.”

In humans, this includes AIDS,
herpes, hepatitis, Epstein Barr virus and
cytomegalovirus.

Medizone now has FDA approval to
begin human testing.

All this has been with virtually no
publicity, because the accepted procedure
for publishing medical breakthroughs is
to complete all the tests first, even though
victims may die waiting for the cautious,
methodical testing procedure to mn its
course. No one in the industry wants to
raise false hopes, let alone repeat the
medical disasters that have resulted in
tha past, from rushing approval on new
treatments.

On the other hand, the drug AZT was
widely publicized for many months before
it was approved in the United States, asis
ongoing research into possible AIDS
vaccines.

The difference js that ozone offers an
actual cure, and it’s cheap.

AZT does not cure but only buys time, |
andis expected to cost $10,000 per patiant
per year, bringing the Burroughs-
Wellcome Co. up to $300 million, from the |
30,000 reported AIDS cases.

Information given here is for research
and educational purposes only and ia nat
intended to prescribe treatment.

& Ideas

The literature suggested that
syphilitic patients are prone to various
opportunistic infections, as AIDS patients
are, although syphilis does not appear to
suppress the immune system unti! its
latent and tertiary stageg. She tested
twenty-four HIV-positive subjects (most
of whom were ARC and AIDS patents)
with a documented hiatory of syphilis.

>

245
Although all of their FTA (fluorescent
treponemal antibody) tests should have
been reactive, twenty-one were not.
McKenna speculated that all AIDS
patients might have syphilis.

In 1981, before AIDS had been
recognized, two German physicians, K.
Dierig and U. Waldthaler, guessed that
gonorrhea) endocarditis might be causing
a patient’s hot flashes, drastic weight loss,
shortness of breath, and confusion, s0
they treated him with 40 million units of
penicillin intravenously each day for
three weeks. His symptoms disappeared,
and later they found he tested positive for
HIV, and a review of his 1981 laboratory
tests “showed abnormalities consistent
with AIDS.” Dierig and Waldthaler then
used the same penicillin treatment on six
other ARC and AIDS patients. All seven
are now “clinically asymptomatic.” (The
usual treatment for syphilisin the US isa
single injection of 2.4 million units of
benzathine penicillin. This form of
penicillin does not penetrate the brain. In
some countries, syphilis is treated for a
year.)

Leishman algo describes the work of
Salvatore Catapano, of Valley Stream,
Long Island. Thirty years ago, Catapano
learned that the Enterobacteriaceae
stimulate immunity, and found that
typhoid vaccine could stop the growth of
tumors. When he saw patients with
Kaposi’s sarcoma, he was reminded of
syphilitic sores he had seen in the tropics.
Catapano believes that the tropical
spirochetal disease, yaws, shouldn’t be
considered as a distinct disease. He
advocates the use of typhoid vaccine to
stimulate the immune system before
treating AIDS patients with penicillin.
Catapano also believes that “syphilis”
infections can occur without the presence
of a spirochete, possibly by a virus-like
variant of the organism. This idea has
been proposed many times, og., by
Bergel, in Syphilis im Lichte neuer
Untersuchungen, Jena, 1925.

A few months ago, DJ. Bauer of
Wellcome Laboratories, wrote an article
on the history of antiviral drugs. I know of
hia 1959 work, in which he showed that
copper inhibited the growth of a lipid-
coated virus in the braing of mice, 30 I was
surprised to see that he didn’t mention
copper or zinc, and that his story began
with the introduction of amantadine in
1964 to treatinfluenza (which, like herpes
and HIV, is also lipid-coated). I had been

AIDS Gampaign ¢ AIDS Campaign e AIDS Campaign

interested in amantadine for a long time,
because it modifies nerve function in a way
(anti-cholinergic) that I think mimics
certain steroid hormones which I consider
to be part of our natural anti-viral defense
system. So I was also surprised to see that
Bauer gave no explanation of the origin of
amantadine.

Amantadine (or adamantaneamine) is a
water soluble form (1-amino-adamatane) of
a substance that occurs in petroleum. I
noticed that adamantane smells like
camphor, and that it has a cage-like shape
which is very much like that of camphor.
Camphor hasa long history of use as a germ-
killer (e.g., Campho-phenique, for herpes),
and was used successfully in the great
influenza epidemic 70 years ago. I assume
that the idea of using amantadine to treat
influenza was based on its obvious
similarity to natural camphor. An oxidized
form of camphor, camphoric acid, also has a
faint odor of camphor, and has been used as
an oral germ-killer. It was tested as a
syphilis treatment in comparison with
penicillin and the traditional arsenic
compound, salvarsan, shortly after
penicillin became commercially available.
A)l three eliminated the syphilis infection,
but the drug companies were already set up
to produce large amounts of penicillin
profitably. Camphoric acid was used to
carry bismuth, another heavy metal that
was effective against the syphilis organism.
(I was interested in using camphoric acid to
transport copper, making it able toenter the
brain and also causing it to be absorbed via
the lymphatic system, by-passing the liver
and thus allowing a large dose to be
absorbed without injuring the liver. I
swallowed a small amount, and the next
morning, noticing that my mouth felt fresh
when I woke up, found that my tongue didn’t
have its customary coating. I have heard
that harmless spirochetes tend to grow on
the tongue).

Infection with the “trench mouth”
organism, Trepenema Vincenti, was often
associated with a deficiency of white blood
cells. Another spirochetal disease, Weil's
disease, involved fever, headache,
vomiting, and intestinal bleeding. Still
another type of spirochetal infection was
known in Mexico as “pinta,” and mainly
involved depigmentation of the skin. Early
in the century, some of the abnormalities of
pigmentation, teeth and hair development,
and defects in blood vessels, that had been
attributed to syphilis were found to result
from a copper deficiency.

For at least 80 years, people have beer
observing an association betweer
anesthesia and the elimination of vira
infections. We have at least three natura
anesthetic systems, namely, the GAB-
system, the endorphins, and the steroid:
(especially progesterone). These ven
likely are just three aspects of a sing|:
system. Close analogs of the GABA
system are already known to have anti
vira} action.

About 60 years ago, it was commonly
believed that women, especially durin:
pregnancy, are resistant to syphilis
Moore (Johns Hopkins Hosp. Bull 34, p
89, 1923) states that it is fair to assum:
that pregnancy is the factor which
suppresses the lesions of the disease, Thi
protection may persist over a long perioc
of years and possibly for a lifetime
Spontaneous cure seems in a few
instances to have been the ultimate
result.

It seems necessary to believe thatsome
substance produced in the course o!
pregnancy and non-existentin the tissues
and body fluids of males and non-
pregnant women is antagonistic to the
spirochaetae, but whether this is derived
from corpus luteum, or other organ of
internal] secretion, or from the placenta or
foetus, is merely a subject for speculacion.
(W.G. MacCallum, A Text-Book of
Pathology, W.B. Saunders, 1937, p. 68+.

Camphor, progesterone, nutritional
supplements, and artificial fever have
even fewer side-effects than penidilin.
and should be tasted more widely. The
GABA analogs, besides being non-toxic,
have the additional advantage of being
very cheap. In the phanrmaceutical-
bureaucratic world, though, this has too
often been a fatal defect.

The close association between
immunity and the balance of iron and
copper suggests that the iron/copper ratio
should be studied in AIDS.2 The fact that
hemosiderosis (a disease of excess iron
absorption) occurs mainly in Africans and
in transfusion recipients might be
expected to relate to the virulence of any
infectious disease in those populations.
The tumor of Kaposi’s sarcoma is often
pigmented with hemosiderin. Although
the suppressive effect of iron on the
immune system is well-known, it is
generally ignored, probably because of
our society’s obsessive belief that “ron is
good for you.” Iron’s effect on the immune
system is interestingly examined by June

246

Townsend Letter for Dactora June 19¢
e AIDS Campaign , AMA NEWS

Goodfield in An Imagined World. Register Publishes Clearinghouse Rules

Since I mentioned the endorphins
above in the context of resistance to |
infections, I should mention that these
endogenous peptides are really a family of
substances with very different properties;
some activate the right side of the brain,
others activate the left side.3 The two
sides of the brain have different effects on
theimmunesystem. Opiates are powerful
suppressors of immunity.5 I think it is
clear that morphine and codeine should
never be used when there is an immune
deficiency.

by Diane M. Gianalli

national clearinghouse for MD The data bank was scheduled to begin
licensing and malpractice data functioning last November, but funding
were published in the March 21 issue of the has not yet been appropriated.
Federal Register. The American Medical Association
The rules — which detai) the types of and the Federation of State Medical
information that must be reported to the Boards applied jointly for the contract to
data bank, the entities that must report run the data bank, but because the
information, the conditions under which eligibility period for consideration has
parties will have access to the confidential run out, they will have to re-bid.
information, and the penalties for non- Administration sources predicted that
conformance — are subject to a 60-day the data bank would not become
comment period before final regulationsare = operational before 1989.
issued. Issues likely to be discussed by
The clearinghouse, which also will affected groups before the May 20
2. Physicians with AIDS or ARC patients include information on dentists and other comment deadline will include
are invited to participate in a study of | licensed health professionals, was procedures related to resolving disputes
these and other factors. The Health mandated by Public Law 99-660, the Health about the accuracy of information
Discernment Laboratory in Santa Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986. It reported to the data bank. The proposed
Barbara, Calif., wil do the serum testing. was established to provide a central Tales request comments on the subject,
They will do tests on about12ofeachatno | Tepository of information on health care saying: “In light of the sensitivity of this
providers so as toimprove the quality of the information, we specifically solicit
nation’s medical care by identifying those comments on how disputed information

P roposed rules related to the up practices without fear of detection.

References’
1. Serum copper rises sharply during
pregnancy, partly as a result of high
progesterone levels. Copper provides
some protection against jron toxicity.

charge, but very special handling of the
serum is necessary, and instructions are

available. engaged in unprofessional behavior, andby = should be handled prior to settlement of
3. Ye. Chazov, ef al., “Chemical providing a means to restrict incompetent the dispute.”
asyrometry of the brain,” Science in the | providers from moving to other states to set o

USSR, No. 1, pp. 21-29, 1987.
4. PJ. Neveu, et al, “Modulation of |

mitogen-induced lymphoproliferation by
cerebral neocortex,” Life Sclences 38, pp. T [| E K EY C O {|
1907-1913, 1986. |

5. H.U. Bryant, ef al.,  “Immuno- FINEST HEALTH PRODUCTS

| suppressive effects of chronic morphine Catering specitically to the |
treatment in mice,” Life Sciences 41, pp. Professional with a “preventive” or
1731-1738, 1987. “holistic” health care practice.

From a wide variety of services
Ray Peat’s Newsletter and products, the Key Company is
P.O. Box 3427 unique and able to meet the needs
Eugene, OR 97403 of most professional practices.

Our product line (over 500 items)
includes supplements which are
hypo-allergenic.

If you are looking for product integrity and
cost effective therapies, please consider
what the Key Company has to offer.

Subscriptions: $18.00 yearly

NATURAL HEALTH.
CONVENTION _
May 21 & 22, 1988

Memorial Coliseum Complex
1401 N. Wheeler

Portland, Oregon "We care that your patients get well.

For a FREE calatog ptease call:
Yoll rea in Missoun 800-392-9039 Ouisida Missouri 600-425-9592

For Information Contact
Sandy at 818/357-2183 |
Pe

Townsend Letter for Doctors June 1988

247
