Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission. Copyright 2001 Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

November 2001

Some issues related to the stress of winter: Postpartum, premenstrual, and
“Winter sickness” occurs when there isn’t enough seasonal serotonin soaks: Hints

daylight to allow us to recover from nocturnal stress.
The stress related hormones rise at night, and winter about aging, msomnia and diabetes
nights are long.
The inadequate light produces thyroid and When I read, in the early 1950s, about the
progesterone deficiencies. cyclical peaks of mortality in the early morning
A progesterone or thyroid deficiency, or estrogen h wing the: that hac id :
and polyunsaturated fat excess, causes serotonin to ours and winter months, that had been €vident in
increase. Cold, dark, and even minor stresses cause actuarial tables for a long time, it wasn’t hard to
increased serotonin. accept that light was good for us, and that
The amino acid tryptophan can be metabolized darkness was harmful. “Chronobiology,” the
into serotonin, which can be converted into melatonin. awareness that biol ogical responses are dependent

More than twenty years ago, tryptophan was malar ts .
being promoted as a sedative, even though it was on the time of day, was firmly established by the

known to be the only amino acid that is carcinogenic. 1950s.
In excess, it suppresses the function of the thyroid
giand. A protein deficiency reieases tryptophan from
muscles.

A “serotonin deficiency” was often said to cause
depression. Hydroxy tryptophan (5-HTP) is sold as a
serotonin precursor that is supposed to improve mood.
Many kinds of stress cause serotonin’s activity to

“....ryptophan transport was increased
in the major depressions and in the
dysthymic disorders.” D. Pringuey,: et  al.,
1986.

“_.We propose that there is a hypersero-
tonergic state in the hippocampal formation

increase.
Melatonin has been sold as a sleeping pill, longev- of some subjects with schizophrenia....”
| ity pili, and anticancer agent. Its e E. Scarr, D.L. Copolov, B. Dean, L. Rebecca.

body is stimulated by stress and darkness.

Light, especially red light, penetrates into the
body, and suppresses free radical activity y and
activates the crucial respiratory enzyme, cytochrome
oxidase, which is activated by thyroid, and which is
inactivated by polyunsaturated fats.

Serotonin released from platelets causes blood
clotting and vascular spasms, and stimulates cell
division. It and histamine are mediators of inflamma-

“..a hyperserotonemic condition has
been documented in preeclampsia.”
Carrasco, et al., 2000.
“Both melatonin and serotonin were
potent inhibitors of progesterone release.”
Schaeffer and Sirotkin, 1997.

tion Ghai cwmse blond Veaeais to Tea. Beginning in the 1950s, when I would spend
Serotonin . triggers the release of the stress the surhmers working in the woods, I noticed
hormones, ACTH, cortisol, and prolactin. effects of sunlight that I didn’t understand, such as

People often gain weight during the winter; in the | the worsening of acne in proportion to the amount
far north, blood tryptophan is elevated in the winter; of sun exposure, as well as during times of stress.

depressed women have increased melatonin, alcohol ; : ‘
lowers melatonin; alcohol consumption is increased by In 1965, I noticed that even incandescent light

darkness. exposure during the night could immediately
The use of antiserotonin drugs in alleviating provoke my acne, so I realized that ultraviolet
stroke, hypertension, heart failure, diabetes, depres- itritation wasn’t the essential factor. First I
sion, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus (SLE), fibro- : . . - -
sis, wheezing, and migraine suggests the importance of thought the ey consumption of vitamin A might
hyperserotonemia in causing disease. be responsible, since taking additional vitamin A

would control my acne, but then I realized that an

extended photoperiod stimulated the sex
hormones, and that this increased demands for
vitamin A.

When I moved to the northern US from
Mexico in 1965, I began noticing other interesting
hormonal and nutritional effects relating to the
seasons. In the winter of 1966-67 | began refer-
ring to “winter sickness” as the consequence of
the hormonal changes produced by a lack of light
exposure. Women who moved from a sunny
climate to cloudy Eugene, and who often lived in
gloomy basement apartments while they were at
the university, described premenstrual depression
and other symptoms that they had never experi-
enced before. Many serious diseases had their
onset during these times of light deprivation and
hormonal upset.

I submitted some of my observations on
winter sickness to various journals, and didn’t get
any responses from most of the editors, except for
occasional sarcastic remarks about how ridiculous
it is to suggest that ight would have biological or
psychological effects on humans.

Since 1966 I had been including a discussion
of light’s effects in my classes on nutrition and
hormones and aging, and in the early seventies I
began travelling around to talk to health-food,
alternative medicine, and church groups, and to
talk on occasional radio and television programs,
where I would emphasize the importance of good
light along with good nutrition. I found that the
general public, and especially so-called “conserva-
tive” people, were remarkably receptive to ideas
of interactions between organism and
environment, and between mood and chemistry. I
think their receptiveness had to do with the
attitude called “paranoia,” an attitude that has its
positive features, as Salvador Dali observed.

Professional people, especially journal editors,
on the other hand, seemed to suffer from a mental
rigidity that was the polar opposite of paranoia, a
belief that nothing was happening outside of the
set of beliefs residing in their own minds. This is a
psychiatric condition that can be called “editor-
ness,” or simply “professionalism.”

Although no journal or magazine had
responded favorably to my articles on winter
sickness and light therapy, some of those editors

later began publishing similar observations by
themselves or others, and by 1985 “Seasonal
Affective Disorder” was becoming something like
a “movement,” with people arguing about the
proper use of “light panels” and phase-shifting of
melatonin, and even direct supplementation of
melatonin. When its factors are reduced to a
minimum, usually two, a new thought can
sometimes penetrate into the professional mental-
ity, though they are likely to get one or both of
those factors wrong, as often as not. The use of
bright light to treat depression should have made
people realize that a melatonin excess contributed
to depression, but that simple idea has been gener-
ally evaded.

The reluctance to see any connection between
mood and hormones, or between light and health,
probably resulted from an education in which
there was already an explanation for everything.
Now that medicine accepts a role for light and
hormones in mood and behavior, it is within a
culture dominated by Estrogen Replacement
Therapy and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibi-
tors, such as Prozac. When there is a product for
everything, explanations are degraded, and profes-
sionalism reaches a new low. The use of Prozac
and similar drugs to treat PMS is an example of
how product-professionalism works. (Its action in
PMS is probably the result of increasing a brain
steroid, compensating for a progesterone
deficiency, exactly contrary to the doctrine that it
acts by increasing serotonin availability.)

Pcople who belicve that there is a “biological
clock” in the brain think that light signals entering
through the eye provide the cues that set the clock,
and that the brain then organizes the behavior
that’s appropriate for the season and time of day.
But pigeons wearing opaque hoods can sense
environmental light if the rest of their body is
uncovered. The same sort of bodily sensitivity to
light was demonstrated by shining light onto the
back of a person’s knee.

Instead of a “clock” that consists of some
procedure for counting enzyme reactions or DNA
oscillations or something of the sort, for which
there is not even a clear theory, I think the
evidence supports the idea that physiological

states reflect the organism’s relation to the
environment, and that, in the absence of the neces-
sary amount of light and heat from the environ-
ment, energy stores in the form of glycogen
become depleted, creating hunger and a variety of
stress reactions. It takes some time to deplete
glycogen stores, and it takes time to assimilate
food, and so hunger and satiation tend to be cyclic,
but it isn’t productive to call these processes “a
biological cloc!

approximately 24 hours, do have a learned compo-
nent, but Frank A. Brown’s experiments in the
1960s made it clear that there are important rhyth-
mic environmental influences other than the cycle
of light and dark. Brown’s biological experiments
were complemented by Alexandre Rothen’s physi-
cal experiments which made it clear that the
diurnal cycles aren’t just light cues. In the univer-

sity’s hamster house where I worked, the cycles of

light and dark were automatically controlled, air
temperature was kept constant, and there were no
windows, but in the winter the hamsters’ thymus
glands practically disappeared, and then in the
summer they were restored. The infrared and

microwave radiation of the environment, that can

penetrate walls, must be constant to avoid biologi-
cal stress.

Our’ biological chythms, of

Winter, at least in some species, causes —
serotonin to increase. (Philo and Reiter, 1980) In
the winter, and in the morming, intraocular
pressure (IOP) increases (Qureshi, et al., 1999),
and drugs that antagonize serotonin reduce IOP.
pn have higher JOP than men,

| sen ni

TOT, n discomfort; and enesren ,
f alert pleasure Cease

n deficit disorder,
ardation, as well as

A mediator of § stress . transduces an infinite
range of harmful influences into a stereotyped
response, mobilizing the adaptive antistress
gl ee as.

is antistress syste _ The Aitierenee seems to
be that passivity allows a generalized catabolism,
while an active response strengthens the

functional system that is being challenged. Winter

onin here aia ind
iin (Mendelow, et al., 1977; Eidel-
quumeininiindiaet Chex: is no question about

serotonin’s being a mediator of depression, except

for the stereotype that got its start in the 1960s that
wants to see it as a sedative euphoriant, a
deficiency of which produces many psychological
problems. The tryptophan and melatonin indus-
tries were built up around this serotonin myth.
Aging and the degenerative diseases involve
combinations of metabolic depression and inflam-
mation. Anti-serotonin agents are coming to be

recognized as treatments for a wide variety of

degenerative diseases.

Minks that have mated in the winter don’t
implant the fertilized ovum in the uterus until the
spring equinox, when progesterone rises suddenly,
and ailows both the uterus and the embryo to
begin the process of pregnancy and gestation.
Progesterone provides the oxygen needed for the
successful implantation of the embryo, while
estrogen and serotonin lower the intrauterine
oxygen.

Under good conditions, the (premenstrual)
luteal phase of the monthly cycle resembles
pregnancy, as a period of progesterone dominance,
in which the abundance of progesterone causes
cells to decrease their estrogen content. The luteal

phase is actually the first stage of pregnancy, and

if there is implantation of an embryo all of the
processes that begin at ovulation progress continu-
ously until childbirth occurs. When there is no
implantation, the luteal phase progesterone
dominance is terminated, allowing estrogen to

enter tissues and producing menstruation. The

sudden decrease of progesterone production
before menstruation is similar to the decrease of

hormone production just before childbirth. The

same conditions that produce the premenstrual

syndrome, if they aren’t corrected by the |

placenta’s massive production of progesterone,
will produce preeclampsia, toxemia of pregnancy,
eclampsia, and postpartum depression. They are
also related to the problems that become so
common at menopause. Whenever the production
of progesterone falls, tissues are susceptibie to
estrogen.

There are several common causes of a
progesterone deficiency. Deficiencies of thyroid,
vitamin A, and cholesterol are often responsible

for a progesterone deficiency. Inadequate light

exposure can cause it. Excess polyunsaturated
fats, interfering with gonads and thyroid, can
cause it. And excess serotonin can cause it.

“Serotonin is a precursor of melatonin, which
tends to be produced at night. Because of the
books published during the intensive marketing
campaign for melatonin, many people are familiar
with the work of Maestroni and Pierpaoli, who
reported that treatment with melatonin, or with the
transplantation of pineal glands from young
animals, would extend the life span of mice and
prevent cancer. Melatonin is often called the
“pineal hormone,” though there are other
hormones in the pineal, and many other tissues
can produce melatonin.

Mice and rats are nocturnal animals, so they
are notoriously inappropriate for evaluating the
nocturnal hormones as they might relate to
humans and other animals that are active in the
daytime. Although melatonin sometimes antago-
nizes serotonin in a protective way, in itself it can
lower body temperature and alertness, suppress-
ing thyroid and progesterone. (Sirotkin, 1997)
Women who ar depressed have been found to
have higher daytime melatonin levels. (Danilenko,
et al., 1994) While the popular books have given
the impression that there is no question about the
protective nature of melatonin, it tums out that in
only five out of 36 strains of inbred mice can_
melatonin be demonstrated in the pineal

who are

which mammary cancer kills practically all the
females, is one of these. When they are given
melatonin the development of tumors is accel-
erated. When their pineal gland is removed,
their life span is extended. —

Estrogen and stress increase free fatty acids,
and unsaturated free fatty acids cause serotonin
release; serotonin, at least under some circum-
stances, can be lipolytic, increasing the free circu-
lating fatty acids.

Darkness creates stress, by free radical inacti-
vation of the respiratory enzyme, cytochrome
oxidase, and light restores the activity of that
enzyme, and probably also has a variety of anti-
free-radical actions. Free fatty acids rise in the
darkness, intensifying free radical production and

suppressing respiration. Progesterone synthesis is
suppressed by darkness. The serotonin liberated
by the fatty acids suppresses progesterone by
inhibiting the secretion of luteinizing hormone
(LH) which stimulates progesterone synthesis, and
also seems to act directly on the ovary to*suppress
progesterone secretion (Wilson, et al., 1975).
While estrogen increases serotonin’s actions,
progesterone antagonizes them.

Serotonin depletes glycogen stores, much the
way estrogen and histamine do. This can cause
hyperglycemia. Thyroid, carbon dioxide, and
caffeine, which inhibit serotonin release, all tend
to protect glycogen stores. Under the influence of
carbon dioxide, noradrenaline can still liberate
glucose from glycogen, but serotonin’s effect is
inhibited by carbon dioxide.

Serotonin interferes with slow-wave sleep,
creating a situation resembling that of depression
or old age. Brain glycogen is depleted in old age,
and this depletion contributes to inefficient brain
metabolism. Serotonin’s stimulation of ACTH,
which stimulates the adrenal cortex, and its direct
stimulation of cortisone production by the
adrenals, is probably involved in the chronic
excess of cortisone seen in depression and old age,
which contributes to insulin resistance and diabe-
tes. and to the atrophy of all tissues including the
brain. (People who are studying chronic inflam-
matory processes are gathering data that will be
meaningful for understanding depression and
aging, but it seems that psychiatrists don’t know
about their work.)

Anti-serotonin drugs such as bromocriptine
have been found to correct diabetes, apparently
because serotonin interferes with the use of sugar,
acting on cells’ metabolism to decrease its use,
and preventing the secretion of insulin. Bromo-

criptine’s correction of obesity also seems to be

the result of its correction of glucose metabolism.
In the 1970s, it was established that darkness
increases the appetite for alcohol. More recently
(Lin and Hubbard, 1995) it has been found that the
antiserotonin drugs prevent the dark-induced
appetite for alcohol. Alcohol is probably a self-
medication to alleviate serotonin-related depres-
sion. Alcohol, like progesterone, is
neuroprotective in brain trauma. Alcohol increases

formation of the sedative neurosteroid (“THP”)
derived from progesterone (VanDoren, et al.,
2000), and alcohol increases brain circulation,
countering serotonin’s effect.

Progesterone withdrawal and alcohol
withdrawal are so closely related that one can
alleviate the symptoms of the other.

Isolation might be another factor contributing
to depression and alcoholism, since it decreases
the formation of the protective neurosteroid. |

The “brain fog” that is often described in
depressed people (and people with other serotonin
syndromes, such as the fibromyalgia syndrome) is
probably produced by a combination of factors,
including hypothyroidism, low body temperature,
and hyperserotonemia. The amnesia produced by
shock was found to be prevented by antiserotonin
drugs (Montanaro, et al., 1979). The same
researchers suggested that the drugs had an
“antipunishment” effect, in effect making the
animals less fearful.

There is more confusion in the medical litera-
ture regarding the actions of serotonin than there
is about practically any other subject.

For example, there is clear evidence from both
animal and human studies that serotonin, like
estrogen, is associated with aggression, but the
dominating stereotype is that serotonin is the
agent of serenity and peace. In an epidemiological
study (Moffitt, et al., 1998), a record of violence
was clearly associated with above-average blood
serotonin levels. Animal studies show that
darkness stimulates both aggression and eating
(Russell and Singer, 1983), and that serotonin
increases, while antiserotonin drugs decrease,
aggression (Carlini and Lindsey, 1983).

When lysergic acid derivatives came onto the
pharmaceutical market, the spirit of the times
caused them to be described as dopamine
agonists, rather than as serotonin antagonists, but
the latter would be at least as descriptive of their
effects. Bromocriptine fulfills many of the
requirements of being a serotonin antagonist, for
example by suppressing prolactin. As a class, the
serotonin antagonists have a very interesting place
in pharmaceutical medicine, because the broad
spectrum of their therapeutic activity suggests the

great variety of problems caused by excess
serotonin.

The documentation of extensive government-
supported fraud in research on LSD and marihu-
ana should make us question subsequent research
that plows the same or similar furrows. My incli-
nation is to believe that incompetence can’t
account for the glaring errors in research on
serotonin-related questions. Commercial commit-
ments to particular theories of drug action have
undoubtedly contributed to the crazy quality of the
psychiatric serotonin literature.

In the case of some antiserotonin drugs, there
is commercial support for research, so they might
come into general use in spite of the mythic
stature of tryptophan/serotonin/melatonin. But

(Some comments on research methods:)

“Serotonin activity” may be judged by the
response of prolactin to serotonin or to a drug
that is thought to mimic serotonin, or by
serotonin metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid, or
by the total amount of serotonin in the blood, or
by its efflux from platelets, or the ratio of its
concentration in the plasma and in the
platelets. It isn’t very clear whether serotonin’s
concentration or its turnover rate is most
important, and the number and sensitivity of the
many “serotonin receptors” varies, and
presumably changes the meaning of any given
quantity of serotonin. When serotonin’s activity
is judged indirectly, interpretation and subjec-
tivity are involved.

Even the “synaptic reuptake inhibitors,”
such as fluoxetine, sometimes relieve symptoms
that are believed to be caused by an excess of
serotonin (C. Advokat and V. Kutlesic, 1995,
Neurosci Biobehav Rey 1995
Spring; 19(1):59-66 Pharmacotherapy of the
eating disorders: a commentary.)

But the actual injection of serotonin, or of
serotonin antagonists that are known to
approximately neutralize serotonin’s effects,
and the examination of the basal concentra-
tions of the hormones known to be regulated
by serotonin, are much less likely to be
distorted by arbitrary interpretations.

When a “receptor” is first proposed or
“discovered,” it is always “a protein,” though
because of the idea of a barrier (semipermeable)
membrane around cells, “membrane lipids” are
sometimes invoked. But after a few years of
research, the “receptor” becomes a more and
more complex system of interacting molecules.
The doctrine of the “receptor” is intended to
explain why cells have a specific response to a
specific substance. Gradually, a_ receptor
becomes a “response element,” but the
“element,” in its complexity, begins to shade off
into the system “‘membrane/cytoplasm/nucleus, ”
which is to say, the cell. The cell is the response
element. The “transmitter substance” interacts
with various agonists, antagonists, inverse
agonists and binding competitors to produce an
effect that is a summation of influences. A single
protein or protein system can Serve as a “recep-
tor” for antagonistic substances.

thyroid, protein, magnesium, thiamine, progester-
one and light are natural factors that keep
serotonin under control, and that don’t have the
side effects of the synthetic antiserotonergic
agents. Knowledge of serotonin’s harmful actions
can guide our use of the natural protective factors.
For example, whey protein contains much more
tryptophan than whole milk or cheese does, and
would tend to suppress the thyroid and activate
the whole serotonin-stress system. Whey might be
good food for fattening pigs,- but its acceptance in
the health food industry as a powdered protein
supplement is just another example of the harmful
effects of the serotonin mythology.

REFERENCES

Int # Circumpolar Health 1998;57 Suppl 1:386-8.
Seasonal variation of the amino _ acid,
L-tryptophan, in interior Alaska. Levine ME, Duffy
LK The seasonal pattern of L-tryptophan was studied
in a Fairbanks, Alaska, population that was unadapted
to the extreme light variations of the North.
Previously, this population was shown to exhibit
seasonal behavior effects such as increases in fatigue
and sleep duration, as well as endocrine effects such
as increases in melatonin levels and phase shifting.
Caloric and macronutrient intake have been reported
to vary seasonally in humans, thereby potentially

influencing the plasma levels of L-tryptophan, which
is a precursor of serotonin and melatonin. Plasma
levels of L-tryptophan from volunteers, whose average
duration of stay in Alaska was eight months, were
determined by automated amino acid analysis. Promi-
nent results included finding increased levels in the
winter at several different diurnal time points.
These findings support hypotheses which relate
underlying physiological adaptations to the North
to the increased incidence of behavioral disorders
such as depression and alcoholism.

Epidemiology 2000 Nov;11(6):660-5. Alcohol
consumption and urinary concentration of
6-sulfatoxymelatonin in healthy women. Stevens RG,
Davis S, Mirick DK, Kheifets L, Kaune W “We found that
the nocturnal urinary concentration of the primary
metabolite of melatonin (6-sulfatoxymelatonin)
decreased in a dose-dependent manner with increasing
consumption of alcoholic beverages in the preceding
24-hour period, after taking into account the independ-
ent effects on melatonin of age, hours of darkness, use of
medications that affect melatonin levels, and body mass
index. A categorical analysis revealed no effect of one
drink, but a 9% reduction with two drinks, a 15%
reduction with three drinks, and a 17% reduction with
four or more drinks.”

Fertil Steril 1993 Apr;59(4):896-900. Baboon corpus
luteum: the effect of melatonin on in vitro progesterone
production. Khan-Dawood FS, Dawood MY “Melatonin
(0.01 to 1.0 ng/mL) inhibited basal P production in all
the CL (41.8 +/- 9.9 ng P without melatonin compared
with 32.2 +/- 2.0 ng P, 28.4 +/- 2.1 ng with 0.01 and 1.0
ng/mL melatonin, respectively), Human chorionic
gonadotropin-stimulated P production was significantly
inhibited with as little as 0.01 ng of melatonin (150.8 +/-
11.4 ng with 10 TU hCG versus 120.3 +/- 6.4 ng with 10 IU
hCG and 1.0 ng melatonin). The degree of inhibition in the
hCG-stimulated cells was greater than in the nonstimulated
cells. Melatonin at a concentration of 0.001 ng/mL did not
affect P production in both stimulated and nonstimulated
cells. Serotonin in similar concentrations had no effect on
luteal cell P production.” “These findings indicate that
melatonin exerts a suppressive effect on baboon dispersed
luteal cell P production and thus may play a role in luteal
function.”

Experientia 1980 Jun 15;36(6):664-5. A circannual
rhythm in bovine pineal serotonin. Philo R, Reiter RJ.

Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes, 1997, 105:2, 109-12.
Melatonin and serotonin regulate the release of insulin-
like growth factor-I, oxytocin and progesterone by
cultured human granulosa cells. Schaeffer HJ; Sirotkin
AV.

Physiol Behav 1983 Jan;30(1):23-7. Relations
between muricide, circadian rhythm and
consummatory behavior. Russell JW, Singer G

Three forms of behavior--muricide, eating, and

drinking--have been studied at six photic periods
during a 12/12 hr light/dark circadian cycle to
which the subjects have been habituated. One
hundred and eight rats served as subjects, 18 per
photic period. The frequency of muricide was
recorded for each period and subsequent food and
water intakes were measured during a 1 hr test
period. Results show a significantly higher
frequency of muricide during the dark than
during periods of light. Food intake covaried
significantly with the incidence of muricide rs =
0.89, p less than 0.05), while no such relationship
was found between muricide and water intake (rs
= 0.17, p less than 0.05). The findings are
consistent with reports of circadian changes in
other rodent behaviors, including rhythmicity

. in home-cage and in shock-induced aggression.

Covariation of muricide and eating does not
establish a causal relation between the two. Three
models of physiological mechanisms which might
provide substrates for the covariance are

discussed.

Semin Clin Neuropsychiatry 2000 Apr;5(2):125-31.
Serotonin and amino acids: partners in delirium patho-
physiology? van der Mast RC, Fekkes D “Serotonin is one
of the neurotransmitters that may play an important role in
medical and surgical delirium. Normal serotonin synthesis
and release in the human brain is, among others, dependent
on the availability of its precursor tryptophan (Trp) from
blood. The essential amino acid Trp competes with the
other large neutral amino acids (LNAA) tyrosine,
phenylalanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine for trans-
port across the blood-brain barrier. This competition deter-
Mines its uptake into the brain, represented by the ratio of
the plasma level of Trp to the sum of the other LNAA. The
plasma ratio of Trp/LNAA, plasma level of Trp, and
serotonin in plasma and platelets have been used as indirect
peripheral measures for central serotonergic functioning.
Both increased and decreased serotonergic activity have
been associated with delirium. Serotonin agonists can
induce psychosis, both elevated Trp availability and
increased cerebral serotonin have been associated with
hepatic encephalopathy, and excess serotonergic brain
activity has been related to the development of fhe
serotonin syndrome of which delirium is a main
symptom. On the other hand, alcohol withdrawal delirium,
delirium in levodopa-treated Parkinson patients, and postop-
erative delirium have been related to reduce cerebral Trp
availability from plasma suggesting diminished serotonergic
function. Rick factors for delirium such as severe illness,
surgery, and trauma can induce immune activation and a
physical stress response comprising increased activity of the
limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, _ the
occurrence of a low T3 syndrome, and, possibly, changes in

the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. There are indica-
tions that these changes have their effect on plasma amino
acid concentrations, e.g., Trp, and multiple cerebral neuro-
transmitters, including serotonin. This stress response may
be different depending on the stage of illness being acute or
chronic.”

J Neurosci 2000 Mar 1;20(5):1982-9. Neuroactive
steroid 3alpha-hydroxy-Salpha-pregnan-20-one
modulates electrophysiological and behavioral actions of
ethanol. VanDoren MJ, Matthews DB, Janis GC, Grobin
AC, Devaud LL, Morrow AL Neuroactive steroids are
synthesized de novo in brain, yet their physiological signifi-
cance remains elusive. We provide biochemical, electro-
physiological, and behavioral evidence that several specific
actions of alcohol (ethanol) are mediated by the neurosteroid
3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one
(aipha,Salpha-THP; allopregnanolone). Systemic alcohol
administration elevates 3alpha, Saipha-THF levels in ihe
cerebral cortex to pharmacologically relevant concentra-
tions. The elevation of 3alpha,Salpha-THP is dose- and
time-dependent. Furthermore, there is a significant correla-
tion between 3alpha,Salpha-THP levels in cerebral cortex
and the hypnotic effect of ethanol. Blockade of de novo
biosynthesis of Salpha-reduced steroids using the Salpha-
reductase inhibitor finasteride prevents several effects of
ethanol. Pretreatment with finasteride causes no changes in
baseline bicuculline-induced seizure threshold but reverses
the anticonvulsant effect of ethanol. Finasteride pretreatment
also reverses ethanol inhibition of spontaneous neural activ-
ity in medial septal/diagonal band of Broca neurons while
having no direct effect on spontaneous firing rates. Thus,
elevation of 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels by acute ethanol
administration represents a novel mechanism of ethanol
action as well as an important modulatory role for neuroster-
oids in the CNS.

Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol 2001 Jan; 28(1-2):70-3. A
proposed pathological model in the hippocampus of
subjects with schizophrenia. E. Scarr, D.L. Copolov, B.
Dean, L. Rebecca.

Braz J Med Biol Res 1982 Oct;15(4-5):281-3. Effect of
serotonergic drugs on the aggressiveness induccd by
delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol in rem-sleep-deprived rats.
Carlini EA, Lindsey CJ 1. delta 9-Tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC) induced aggressive behavior in rats previously
deprived of REM sleep. This aggressiveness was signifi-
cantly potentiated by tryptophan and fluoxetine, drugs
which increase brain serotonin availability. 2. Conversely,
drugs which decrease serotonergic function such as
D,L-p-chlorophenylalanine, cinanserin and cyprohep-
tadine strongly blocked the aggressive behavior. 3. On
the basis of previous data indicating an involvement of
dopaminergic mechanisms in this type of aggressiveness and
the present results showing a role for serotonin, it is
concluded that REM deprivation-THC aggression is under
the control of at least these two neurotransmitters.

Endocrinol Exp 1979 Mar;13(1):9-18. Inhibitory
role of brain stem serotoninergic neuron system on
thyroid function in rat. Ruzsas C, Jozsa R, Mess B

Thyroid function was investigated in adult male rats
following the use experimental procedures which
inhibit the activity of serotoninergic neuron system.
Pharmacological blockade of the biosynthesis of
sertonin by repeated administration of para-
chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), or interruption (by
Halasz knife) of the serotoninergic pathways of the
brain stem which terminate on hypothalamic nuclei
equally resulted in an augmentation of the following
parameters of hypothalamo-bypophysial-thyroid
activity: T/S ratio, pituitary and blood TSH levels
and blood thyroxine concentration as well as TRH
content of the hypothalamus, The results suggest
that the central nervous serotoninergic neuron
system plays an inhibitory role in the regulation of
TSH secretion, presumably acting upon the
hypothalamus, thereby inhibiting hypothalamic TRH
secretion.

Vopr Onkol 2000;46(3):311-9. [The effect of
melatonin on the indices of biological age, on
longevity and on the development of spontaneous
tumors in mice]. Anisimoy VN, Zavarzina NI,
Zabezhinskii MA, Popovich IG, Antkin IV, Zimina
OA, Soloviey MY, Shtylik AV, Arutiunian AV,
Oparina TI, Prokopenko VM, Khavinson VK Fifty
female CBA mice were given melatonin with drinking
water (20 mg/l) for 5 consecutive days monthly,
beginning from the age of 6 months, until natural -
death. Another 50 intact mice were used as controls.
Melatonin failed to significantly influence body
weight or food consumption. Age-related switching-
off of estrus function was delayed, body tempera-
ture decreased. Somewhat decreased motor activ-
ity did not affect physical one or endurance.
Increase in life span led to higher spontanecus
tumor incidence. Another experiment using 20
snimals of the same line showed melatonin to inhibit
free-radical processes. A conclusion was drawn that
caution should be exercised before melatonin is
recommended for long-term administration as a
geroprotector.

Am J Psychiatry 1983  Jan;140(1):26-30.
Hyperserotonemia and platelet serotonin uptake
and release in schizophrenia and affective disor-
ders. Stahl SM, Woo DJ, Mefford IN, Berger PA,
Ciaranello RD The authors found that platelet
serotonin concentrations were significantly

elevated in patients with chronic schizophrenia and
in patients with bipolar major depressive disorder.
High-affinity serotonin uptake was significantly
reduced only in patients with bipolar major
depressive disorder. Thrombin-induced release of
serotonin from platelets in any patient group was not

different from that of normal control subjects. Platelet
serotonin storage in chronic schizophrenic patients
was also not different from that in normal control
subjects. These platelet findings could not be
explained by age, sex, or medication variables. The
authors suggest that the pharmacodynamics of platelet
serotonin may be different in chronic schizophrenia
than in bipolar major depressive disorder.

Arctic Med Res 1994 Jul;53(3):137-45 Diurnal
and seasonal variations of melatonin and serotonin
in} women with seasonal affective disorder.
Danilenko KV, Putiloy AA, Russkikh GS, Duffy LK,
Ebbesson SO In winters 1990-1991 and 1991-1992
women with and without seasonal affective disorder,
winter type, were treated by light at 2500 lux either in
the morning (0800h-1000h) or afternoon (1600h-
1800h). In winter before light treatment, melatonin
levels in serum in daytime (1200h and 1600h) were
higher in patients compared to controls (p < 0.05).
This difference disappeared in the summer or after
light treatment in the winter. Also, light treatment and
change in season resulted in a phase advance shift of
melatonin rhythm in patients. The decline in melatonin
levels correlated with the decline in specific SAD
symptoms of hyperphagia and carbohydrate craving.
In winter, neither patients nor controls showed signifi-
cant diurnal] variations in levels of whole blood
serotonin. In both patients and controls, levels of
serotonin were higher in summer as compared with
winter, especially at 2000h. Our data suggest that
elevated daytime melatonin can be a state marker of
winter depression, and that seasonal change of photo-
period may also affect the circadian amplitude and
daytime levels of blood serotonin.

Lik Sprava 1994 Jul-Aug;(7-8):88-90. [The effect
of an increased intensity of light on changes in the
serotonin and melatonin content in patients with
depression]. [Article in Russian] Bozhko GK,
Tsaritsinskii VI, Kostiukovskaia LS, Kulabukhov VM
Study into the effect of light of increased intensity
shows that in patients with anxious depression a
high level of melatonin excretion declines to
normal, its low level in melancholic depression
remaining unchanged. Blood concentrations of
serotonin in depressive patients are higher as
compared with the healthy persons and do not
change with increasing in the brightness of the illumi-
nation except for a decrease in a portion of patients
showing maximum levels of serotonin and melanin.

Brain Res Bull 1994;33(6}:633-8. The increased
ethanol preference in rats induced by choice,
darkness, or drugs is reduced by ritanserin. Lin N,
Hubbard JI We tested the hypothesis that ritanserin, a

serotonin $2 antagonist, reduces voluntary and
induced forms of ethanol drinking. We gave 10 mg/kg
ritanserin IP or SC to groups of rats given either a) a
free choice between 3% ethanol and water, or b) kept
in the dark for 5 weeks and given a choice between a
range of ethanol concentrations (3-25%) and water, or
c) implanted with osmotic pumps filled with
tetrahydro-beta carboline and given a choice between
a range of ethanol concentrations and water. in each
case, fritanserin significantly reduced ethanol
consumption and ethanol preference for 8-10 days
after the last injection.

Neuropsychobiology 1979;5(3):174-80. Bromoly-
sergide and methysergide protection against
ECS-induced retrograde amnesia. Montanaro N,
Dall'Clio R, Gandelfi O Bromolysergide (BOL 148)
and methysergide (UML 491), 2 mg/kg intraperito-
neally, and saline were administered to rats 45 min
before one-trial passive-avoidance conditioning
followed by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or sham-
ECS (ECS). On test session (24 h later), the groups
treated with both BOL 148 and UML 491 exhibited a
clear-cut retention in comparison to saline-ECS rats.
On the other hand, al! drugged groups, regardless of
their submission to ECS, showed a little less
pronounced consolidation than saline-ECS rats. The
antiamnestic effect brought about by the two drugs
was discussed in terms of receptor antagonism
agaiust ECS-released brain serotonin, whereas the
lowcr passive-avoidance level observed in treated
animals was considered in relation to a possible
antipunishment effect of antiserotoninergic
trea{ment.

I Neural Transm 1981;50(1):1-12. Depletion in
amygdaloid 5-hydroxytryptamine concentration
and changes in social and aggressive behaviour.
File SE, James TA, MacLeod NK
5,7-Nihydroxytryptamine (10 and 20 microgram) was
microinjected bilaterally into the amygdaloid
complcx of rats and resulted in 55% and 80%
depletion in 5-bydroxytryptamine concentration,
respectively. The lesioned animals exhibited fewer
dominance behaviours and submitted more often
to an intruder into their home-cages than did the
vehivlc-injected controls. The lesioned rats were
also more submissive than were the controls when
they were intruding into another rat's territory. Only
the hizher dose of toxin altered social investigatory
behaviour when this was measured in an arena in
which neither rat had established territory. The
lesioned rats displayed less social interaction and had
reduccd levels of motor activity..:The results are
compared with those of other studies in which there

has been regional or general depletion of brain
5-hydroxytryptamine concentration.

J Neuroimmuno] 2000 Aug 1;108(1-2):131-5. The
pineal gland and cancer. I. Pinealectomy corrects
congenital hormonal dysfunctions and prolongs life
of cancer-prone C3H/He mice. Bulian D, Pierpaoli
W. Hormonal derangements almost invariably
anticipate and signal the onset of tumors. Chronic,
nocturnal melatonin administration delays aging in
normal strains of mice. On the contrary it promotes
and accelerates the onset of tumors in the caucer-
prone strain of C3H/He mice. Grafting of a young
pineal gland into aging mice prolongs their longevity
and maintains juvenile circadian hormonal functions
while pinealectomy (Px) does the opposite. We inves-
ligated if Px in C3iv/e mice would modify their
congenitally deranged pituitary function and affect
their longevity. It was found that contrarily to Px in
normal mice, Px in C3H/He mice remarkably
maintains juvenile night levels of thyroid hormones
and lipids, preserves a cell-mediated immune
response and significantly prolongs their life. The
pineal gland and its pathology may be the key for
understanding, not only the causes of metabolic
aging, but also the origin of those congenital or
progressive aging-related hormonal alterations preced-
ing onset of al] tumors and thus allow preventive
corrective interventions with pineal-derived agents.

J Pineal Res 1989;7(2):195-204. Melatonin
content of the pineal gland in different mouse
strains. Goto M, Oshima I, Tomita T, Ebihara S.
Pineal melatonin content at several times during the
day and night was measured in 36 inbred strains of
mice (Mus musculus) kept under LD 12:12 cycles.
The results have indicated that only five inbred
strains have pineal melatonin content, with higher
levels duriag the night and lower levels during the
day; the other 31 strains do not contain detectable
melatonin in their pineal gland at any of times
examined. The former group includes two commonly
used strains (C3H/He and CBA/Ms) and three wild-
derived strains (Mol-A, Mol-Nis, MOM). C3H and
CBA mice showed a similar pattern of pineal
melatonin rhythm with a peak at 2 hours before lights
on. The peak levels were about 150 pg/gland in both
strains. The rhythmic patterns of melatonin content in
Mol-A, Mol-Nis, and MOM were slightly different
from those in CBA and C3H. In the wild-derived
strains, the peak of melatonin content did not occur at
2 hours before lights on but tended to occur at
midnight. The peak levels were 67-91 pg/gland at the
highest point in these strains.

10

Am J Obstet Gynecol 1985 Sep 15;153(2):130-4.
The effect of serotonergic blockade in postpartum
precclamptic patients. Montenegro R, Knuppel RA,
Shah D, O'Brien WF Thirty postpartum preeclamptic
patients from the University of South Florida Obstetri-
cal Service were enrolled in a placebo-controlled,
randomized, double-blind study to test the effective-
ness of ketanserin in lowering the blood pressure. An
intr:venous bolus of ketanserin resulted in a
significant drop in the mean arterial blood
pressure. The decrease in the blood pressure could
be maintained by a continuous infusion of ketan-
serin. Hypertension returned after the medication was
discontinued. These observations suggest that ketan-
seri, a selective blocker of type II serotonin
recestors, may be effective in acutely reducing
elcy..ted postpartum blood pressure in preeclamp-
tic patients, and that serotonin may play a role in the
pathogenesis of preeclampsia, but not be important as
a mcdiator in the severity of the disease.

Eur J Pharmacol 1985 May 8;111(2):211-20.
Maternal aggression in mice: effects of treatments
wit!. PCPA, 5-HTP and 5-HT receptor antagonists.
Ieni !R, Thurmond JB Drug treatments which influ-
ence brain serotonergic systems were administered to
Jactuting female mice during the early postpartum
period, and their effects on aggressive’ behavior,
locomotor activity and brain monoamines were
examined. P-chlorophenylalanine (200 and 400
me":2) and 5-hydroxytryptophan (100 mg/kg) inhib-
itec! fighting behavior of postpartum mice toward
unfamiliar male intruder mice. These drug-treated
postpartum females showed increased latencies to
attck male intruders and also reduced frequencies of
attack. In addition, postpartum mice treated with the
serv tonin receptor antagonists, mianserin (2 and 4
mg! c), methysergide (4 mg/kg) and methiothepin
(0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg), displayed significantly less
agercssive behavior than control mice, as
mensured by reduced number of attacks. Whole
brai:: monoamine and monoamine metabolite levels
were measured after drug treatments. The behavioral
resi!ts are discussed in terms of drug-induced changes
in | rain chemistry and indicate a possible role for
seronin in the mediation of maternal aggressive
bel:: vior of mice.

sek kkk kk ko ok kok

