SAmPlLE

Ray Peat's Newsletter

International University PO Box 5764, Eugene, OR 9740S Copyright Ray Peat 1995 September, 1995

Regeneration and the
Anti-adaptogens

1 don't think aging is necessary, and I think I
have begun to see the organism in a context that
can explain the cause of aging in a relatively simple
way.

In outline, this is how I see it:

1. Every cell and. tissue is capable of
renewal;

2. the (Hayflick) doctrine of absolutely fon: |
ited celular renewal capacity has been Gisproved
in many ways;

3. the great variety of iepenecatte Sscades
which can be promoted by a few factors--
radiation, oxygen deprivation, polyunsaturated
fats, and estrogen--can serve as a guide. to the
nature of our basic ele Bigeia |

4. the stors which ene our natural
regulatory systems. contain clues to Poesils re-
storative methods.

Every important issue in life is an opportunity
for powerful self-interest to intervene and take
control. In transportation, corporations interested
in selling gasoline and cars destroyed the cities'
elegant systems of electric trolleys, in energy the
nuclear and petroleum interests fought the devel-
opment of solar and wind power, and the timber
industry lobbies against innovation in house con-
struction. The issue of aging and death is one that
has been consciously dealt with throughout human
existence, and it has accumulated a most complex
system of mental commitments. This investment

of emotion and belief affects every aspect of the-
ory and practice in biology and medicine. We
have to keep asking “is this researcher ignoring
some facts that might seem to conflict with his
ideology?"

- Definitions:

Hayflick limit: Leonard Hayflick found that
certain animal or human cells which can be
grown in a dish would die out after 50 divisions,
|and he announced that this limited ability to di-
vide sets the maximum limit of the lifespan. He
has said that this is governed by the principle
that entropy. tends to increase. Another group
found that the same kind of'cell continued to'di-
vide nicely after 110 divisions, and didn't begin
to die out until they began to use the serum
from a different calf. The. cells of the skin and
bowel divide thousands of times in a norinal life-
time, and transplanted pieces of skin or mam-

mary gland remained healthy through the
lifetimes ‘of ten: animals in series.

Telomere: A: structure on the ends of chro-|
‘mosomes that gets shorter with each ivision in
‘some cells. The enzyme telomerase recotisti-
tutes the telomeres in “immortal cells," such as
germ cells and cancer cells. In aging, ‘most as-
pects of cell function are weakened, but this par-
ticular enzyme. operates in a location close
enough to "the genes" that some people think it
is behind the "Hayflick limit.” But many other
repair systems also slow down with aging; noth-
ing gives this structure special explanatory
power.

Previously, I have talked about the doctrine
that our cells are divided into the immortal cells of
"the germ line," and the mortal “somatic” cells of
all the rest of the body. This doctrine says "people

are mortal, so their cells must be intrinsically mor-
tal, but they can have descendants ad infinitum, so
their germ cells must be different from all the rest
of their cells, and immortal." Alexis Carrel was fa-
mous for demonstrating that heart cells could be
immortal in the nght environment, but his work is
now ignored or dismissed. "Only cancer cells and
the germ line are immortal," the present doctrine
says; ("and maybe embryonic cells"). It seems that
the immortalization of our mortal somatic cells is
acceptable, as long as these cells have the function
of killing us.

I think some of Carrel's ideas about the nature
of living organization and of aging are worth quot-
ing. (Man the Unknown, 1935.)

"Isolated cells have the singular power of
reproducing...the edifices characterizing each or-
gan: Ifa few red corpuscles, impelled by gravity,
flow from a drop of blood placed in liquid plasma
and form a tiny stream, banks are soon built up.
Then, these banks cover themselves with filaments
of fibrin, and the stream becomes a pipe, through
which the red cells glide just as in a blood vessel.
Next, leucocytes come, adhere to the surface of
the pipe, and surround it with their undulating
membrane. The blood stream now assumes the
appearance of a capillary vessel enveloped in a
layer of contractile cells. Thus, isolated red and
white corpuscles manage to construct a segment
of circulatory apparatus, although there is neither
heart, circulation, nor tissues to be irrigated."
"The spontaneous tendency toward formation of

.the organs by their constitutive cells, like the social
aptitude of the insects, is a primary datum of ob-
servation." (Page 107.)

"The simplest system, where the phenomenon
of sensescence is observed, consists of a group of
tissue cells cultivated in a small volume of nutritive
medium. In such a system, the medium is progres-
sively modified by the products of nutrition and, in
its turn, modifies the cells. Then appear senes-
cence and death. The rhythm of physiological time
depends on the relations between the tissues and
their medium. It varies according to the volume,
the metabolic activity, the nature of the cell col-
ony, and the quantity and the chemical composi-
tion of the fluid and gaseous media. The

technique used in the preparation of a culture

:
tad Ui j

accounts for the rhythm of life of such culture.
For example, a fragment of heart fed with a single
drop of plasma tn the confined atmosphere of a
hollow slide, and another one immersed in a flask
containing a large volume of nutritive fluids and
gases, have quite different fates. The rate of accu-
mulation of the waste products in the medium, and
the nature of these products, determine the charac-
teristics of the duration of the tissues. When the
composition of the medium is maintained constant,
the cell colonies remain indefinitely in the same
state of activity." "If, by an appropnate technique,
their volume is prevented from increasing, they
never grow old. Colonies obtained from a heart
fragment.removed in January, 1912, from a chick
embryo, are growing as actively today as twenty-
three years ago. In fact, they are immortal.” (Page
173.)

Heart cells are recognizable even in isolation,
because they beat. It would be impossible to mis-
take them for another type of cell.

Years later, Hans Selye was observing the re-
action to a small glass tube inserted under a rat's
skin. He noticed that the tube was soon enclosed
by a capsule of fibrous tissue, and that the cells
gradually grew in a strand from the ends down the
channel of the tube. These cells were isolated
from the fluids that normally surround cells, and
Selye found that after a short time they took on
the appearance of cells from a very old animal,
while the cells of the surrounding capsule re-
mained normal. Selye drained the fluid at inter-
vals, allowing it to be replaced by fresh fluid, and
found that at the end of the rat's life-span, the cells
of this filament showed no signs of aging.

Carrel's work with tissue-culture led him to be-
lieve that changes in the organism's fluids were a
major part of the aging process. Extracts from
animal embryos have been used medically for
treating old people, because of their confirmed ef-
fect on cell function. “Blood plasma alone dis-
plays, throughout the entire life-time, progressive
modifications characterizing the senescence of the
body as a whole. We know that it contains the se-
cretions of all tissues and organs. Plasma and tis-
sues being a closed system, any alteration in the
tissues reacts on the plasma, and vice versa. Dur-
ing the course of life, this system undergoes

continuous changes. Some of these changes may
be detected both by chemical analysis and by
physiological reactions. The plasma or the serum
of an aging animal has been found to increase its
restraining effect on the growth of cell colonies.
The ratio of the area of a colony living in serum, to
that of an identical colony living in a saline solu-
tion and acting as a control, is called the growth
index. The older the animal to which the serum
belongs, the smaller is this index." “During the
first days of life, blood serum does not inhibit the
growth of cell colonies any more than does the
control solution. At this moment the value of this
index approaches unity. As the animal becomes
older, its serum restrains cell multiplication more
effectively. And the index decreases. During the
last years of life, it is generally equal to zero.”
{Page 168.)

In 1921, a researcher (A. J. Lotka) looking for
a job at the Rockefeller Institute visited Carrel's
laboratory. "I saw a young lady making chicken
hash in the most heartless but thoroughly scientific
manner. I saw a little piece of chicken heart fool-
ishly throbbing after all occasion for throbs had
long ceased. I saw a thirteen year old dog reju-
ventated by the infusion of younger blood. It was
hardly converted into a giddy young thing, but
they told me there was still marked improvement
even after twelve months." (S. E. Kingsland, Mod-
eling Nature, Univ. of Chicago Press, 1995.)

Carrel discussed Lecomte du Nouy's equations
for describing the regenerative activity of the body
at a given age. (A 21 year-old person heals twice
as quickly as a 40. year-old person.) The rate of
healing and the growth index of plasma, according
to Carrel, "...correspond to successive states in
the chemical composition of the humors. The
proteins of blocd serum become more. abun-
dant and their characters are modified. It is
chiefly the fats which give to serum the prop-
erty of acting upon certain cell types and of di-
minishing the rapidity of their multiplication.
These fats increase in quantity and change in
nature during life." (Page 174.)

Here, I want to review some of the effects of
fats that I have talked about elsewhere. Polez-
haev's work in regeneration has suggested that the
fatty residue left from degenerating cells stimulates

—

the formation of new cells. Linoleic acid, like
phorbol esters and estrogen, activates protein
kinase C, and the cell growth system.

In looking at a tissue slide that was used to di-
agnose "ductal carcinoma in situ," I noticed that
the structures resembled cross-sections of tuber-
cles. In the breast ducts, fatty residues from milk
secretions should be able to stimulate cell division.
The fats formed by the tuberculosis bacillus stimu-
late the cellular reaction that produces the tubercle
structure. Since a tuberculous breast grossly re-
sembles a cancerous breast, it is important that the
possible structural similarity of the two diseases,
under the microscope, ‘be considered. The bacteria
can disappear from the cells in a tubercle, and the
"defining" presence of giant cells in the tubercular
lesion isn't invariable.)

It has been suggested that the tubercle devel-
ops and persists because the body's proteolytic en-
zymes are inhibited by the unsaturated fats. (Even
older ideas of "fatty degeneration,” going back to
the very beginnings. of biochemistry, were based
on the fact that proteins are deposited from solu-
tion at an interface, such as that formed by a drop
of oil, forming a sort of proteinaceous skin around
fat droplets.) Whether the process is simply the
result of inactivating proteolytic enzymes, or the
result of a more specific disordering of cell control
systems, it is a well established experimental fact
that oils stimulate a kind of fibrous tumor, called
the "oil granuloma." If the oil can't be digested
and removed, the body reacts by forming a growth
around it. Inside the cell, unsaturated fatty acids
slow many cellular processes, including respiratory
energy production and protein turnover, changes
which parallel the changes occuring in aging.

About 30 years ago, Leonard Hayflick found
that certain animal or human cells which can be
grown in a dish would die out after about 50 divi-
sions. He also found that cells from old individu-
als would stop dividing sooner when grown in
tissue culture. He announced that this limited abil-
ity to divide sets the maximum limit of the lifespan.
He has said that this is governed by the principle
that entropy tends to increase. Another group-
found that the same kind of cell continued to di-
vide nicely after 110 divisions, and didn't begin to

Ln.

Rec
Qe beer; Mut sodiGzepwe oat Puts haar! “ce eT

die out until they began to use the serum from a
different calf. Their result resembled Carrel's find-
ings, in which the fluid from younger organisms
supported more vigorous growth in tissue culture,
and clearly casts doubt on Hayflick's principle.
But even without such contradictions of Hayflick's
tissue culture results, Hayflick's claims couldn't
really be taken seriously as anything but a theoreti-
cal model of what is happening to cells in an aging
organism, because cells that are removed from
their complex environment in the organism have
been deprived of a rich and communicative
framework.

The cells of the skin and. bowel divide thou-
sands of times in a normal lifetime, showing that
there is a kind of arrogant silliness in the claim that

"human cells have a strictly limited capacity to di- |

vide." (I call this "disproof by dandruff.")

Pieces of skin or mammary gland, removed
from old rats and transplanted into young rats, re-
mained healthy through the lifetimes of ten animals
in series. When young animals have been surgi-
cally attached to old animals ("parabiosis"), the
pair has lived out the life-span of the younger ani-
mal, allowing the older one to reach an abnormally
advanced age. In some studies, beneficial changes
have been seen in the old individual, and some
harmful effects appeared in the young animal. I
have described these experiments previously.

Selye's experiment, besides showing the impor-
tance of fluid renewal in cell aging, also showed
one of the ways in which cells respond to struc-
ture. Cells build structures, and then they respond
to them. They "know" where they are in a given
structure. Cells produce materials--some of them
soluble, others insoluble--that produce a character-
istic local environment. In plants, the cellulose
scaffolding between cells, and other extracellular
matrix materials, serve as part of the information
that guides the functioning of cells,’ so that re-
moval of the cellulose allows the cell to stop a spe-
ctalized function, and begin to grow and take on
new functions, even in some cases producing a
complete new organism. In a wound in an animal's
skin, cell division is stimulated to heal the wound.
I think it is the doctrine of the germ line/somatic
distinction that has prevented more vigorous re-
search in the origin of teratomas, growths of

AL

f IL = aly

NO .dy 7, tro A. ro FF Ls a

IGela Lect

eadss

radically different tissue types (hair, teeth, bones,

fingernails, mammary tissue, e.g.) im an inappro-
priate location--often the ovary, but sometimes in
the bladder, tongue, rectum or other location.
These have been explained as “embryonic rests,"
or undeveloped Siamese twins, as a way to avoid
the idea that somatic cells have the capacity to re-
vert to totipotency. Their occurrence its strongly
reminiscent of the situation in plants, in which an
injured (isolated) somatic cell becomes “totipo-
tent," resembling a germ cell or embryonic cell.

If cells have systems that regulate their func-
tions, and known substances distrupt those func-
tions, the endogenous regulatory material must
have some of the properties of the disruptive ma-
terial. For example, digitalis and ouabain are plant
steroid-derivatives that are poisonous to animal
cells--especially the heart cells--by acting at a
"site" which is normally regulated by substances
such as DHEA and progesterone. ~

For plants, cholesterol is a hormone, while it is
only a precursor for hormones in annals. If
plants ate animals, they might eventually accumu-
late enough cholesterol to disrupt the processes
normally regulated by their very small amounts of
cholesterol.

The fact that opium from poppies, and similar
substances found in other plants, have a powerful
effect on animals, and can be found associated
with certain sites in their cells, led to the belief that
these were regulatory sites, that mght normally be
controlled by very small amounts of matenals pro-
duced in the animals’ tissues, for regulatory pur-
poses. This led to the discovery of the endorphins,
the peptide molecules that have morphine-like
effects.

Valium (or the traditional valerian root. Foot)
tract) was found to be associat

“receptor site," which is now known as the "ben-
zodiazepir jazepine "receptor." peptide called “en-

ozepine” 15 one Of the natural regulators of that.”
control system, but it is also influenced by GABA
(gamma amino butync acid), progesterone,
pregnenolone, and other materials. Butyric acid
itself might affect this system.

Marihuana acts on cells by acting at a site that
is called the "cannabinoid receptor," because the

in 26h 22 VUE Ergu larg se le
oenee SEH SAB},

f

Se

u3 of we VWI EK

ee koseeimnsatien Tuled lee x
body’s natural regulator acting on that site isn't yet
known.

The unsaturated fatty acids, linolenic acid and
linoleic acid, produced by plants, interfere with in-
tercellular communication,’ as well as intracellular
regulatory sites. (PKC, osmotic balance’, respira-
tion.) The body's natural regulatory materials are
probably similar in structure, but produced in con-
trolled amounts and locations.

The Mead acids are unsaturated fatty acids

produced in small quantities by the body when the-

diet doesn't contain an overwhelming amount of
the plant-derived fatty acids. Wherever the plant
fats act, we can. expect to find a process that 1s
regulated by the Mead acids, though not necessar-
ily in the same way or with the same result. Even
if the materials had the same effect on the control
system, the increasing accumulation of an active
material will tend to make control impossible, act-
ing as a constant signal to activate the system.
(Therefore, even an exaggerated accumulation of
the natural transmitter substance would be disrup-
tive if it were released in an uncontrolled way.
The regulatory substance ideally would not be
stored in excess, or it would be released in a con-
trolled way. The Mead acids seem to meet these
criteria.) [The position of the certain type of fatty
acid on glycerol, for example, is regulated by spe-
cific enzymes. | ;

A naturally occurring combination of a fatty
acid with ethanolamine, called anandamide, acti-
vates the "marihuana receptor" of cells. It pre-
vents some types of cell activation. The Mead
acid ethanolamide, like the arachidonic acid form,
can be enzymatically formed in various human tis-
sues, such as the hippocampus, but the two sub-
stances have slightly different effects. Marihuana's
anticonvulsant properties might be more effec-
tively represented by the Mead acid derivative.
The anti-excitatory effect might also be effective in
preventing the loss of cells in the hippocampus,
hypothalamus, and other bram regions, which
(building on Olney's work 25 years ago) ts increas-
ingly understood to result from excitotoxicity.

The architecture of tissues interacts with the
cytoskeleton and the nuclear scaffolding to define
the possibilities and opportunities that are available
to the cell and to the organism.

(pn et bP Au Me (ey ker LA Gi V8: Love (ey eS Kay S

Da Cale

TTS, BSP hen Coleus ) |
The organization of life is maintained by the
energy it uses, and the use of energy requires a
specific organization. There are processes in cells
that regulate the interactions of growth, division
and other functions, but these processes are re-
sponsive to the cells’ environment--they aren't just
"emitted by" or "unrolled from" the cells’ reper-
toire of abilities.

The celi's structure has sensitive “leverage”
points that serve for purposes of “perception” or
“signalling.” When organization fails, it is just rea-
sonable to consider whether extraneous conditions
or "signals" have intervened. Ifit were in life's na-
ture to become disorganized, it is hard to imagine
that it would persist and thrive.

REFERENCES

1. C. Brownlee and F. Berger, "Extracellular ma-
trix and pattern in plant embryos: On the lookout for
developmental information,” Trends in Genetics 11(9),
344-348 1995. "Cells of early plant embryos are
totipotent yet. follow different predetermined develop-
mental pathways, producing embryos with well-defined
autonomously developing tissues. Evidence is accumu-
lating from a few model systems that information main-
taining the determined state of a particular cell type is
contained in a position-dependent manner in the extra-
cellular matrix. This mformation can be released to
signal back to the cell, thus controlling patterns of gene
expression and influencing cell fate.” /

2. C. §. T. Hii, et al, “Inhibition of gap junctional

‘communication by polyunsaturated fatty acids in WB

cells: Evidence that connexin 43 is not hyperphospho-
rylated," Carcinogenesis 16(7), 1507-1511, 1995.

R. Graber, et al., “Fatty acids and cell signal trans-
duction," J. Lipid Mediators Cell Signalling 9, 91-116,
1994.

3. R. Sanchez Olea, et al., “Inhibition by polyun-
saturated fatty acids of cell volume regulation and os-
molyte fluxes in astrocytes,” American J. of
Physiology--Cell Physiol. 38(1), C96-C102, 1995.

4. J. Priller, et al., "Mead ethanolamide, a novel ei-
cosanoid, is an agonist for the central (CB1) and pe-
ripheral (CB2) cannabmoid receptors," Mol.
Pharmacol. 48(2), 288-292, 1995.

