Sales Pitch for Linseed Oil

Editor:

Your publication performs an
important service in allowing the free
expression of ideasin medicine and related
subjects. Many publications, contrary to
the spirit ofscience, “protect” their readers
from improper ideas. Too many
publications are actually protecting their
advertising revenue by rejecting criticism
of certain drugs or food supplements.
Industries with annual profits in the
billions of dollars have the pewer tocontrol
medical journals, professors of medicine,
and public opinion. TL/D is one of the few
publications which has allowed criticism
of the idea that our diet should be
supplemented with the essential fatty
acids.

The article in your December issue by
Mike Minarsich, and the book review
excerpt by J.S. Bland, Ph.D. call for some
special criticism. Minarsich is obviously a
linseed oil salesman (president of New
Dimensions Distributors), and he takes
his pseudo-facts right out of the book by
Udo Erasmus, somy comments are mainly
about the Erasmus book, and some of its
ideas which are derived from the “scientific
work” of Johanna Budwig.

Dr. Bland’s review excerpt says “Fats
and Oils is filled with interesting and
accurate information...” and “is the first
complete guide to everything you need to
know about fats, oils and cholesterol to
make the right food choices for your
health.” T.H. Huxley said that book
reviewers too often get all their
information on the subject from the beok
being reviewed, like the Abyssinian who
supposedly took his steaks from the same
ox he was riding; but it is hard for me to
believe that Biand has really read this
error-filled, incompetent, and possibly
deliberately misleading book. If Udo
Erasmus is a hired commercial writer
working from information provided by his
employer, then he has done a smoothly
competent writing job, and it is the
publisher who misleads by failing to give
some background information. Judging
by the book, I suspect that neither
Erasmus nor Budwig has studied the
fundamentals of organic chemistry. That
isn’t important. But it is very important
that linoleic acid, and related oils, in the
amounts recommended by Udo Erasmus,
are known to cause:
impaired brain developmentand learning;
damage to skin and bones;
accelerated aging and age-pigment

accumulation;

damage to the circulatory system;
increased cancer incidence;
suppressed immunity;

endocrine dysfunction.

U.S. consumption of seed oils had been
almost doubling every decade since the first
world war, but the technological advances of
the 1960s which allowed paints to be made
from petroleum derivatives, rather than from
linseed oil, safflower and soy ai!, stimulated
the redirection of Jarge amounts of these
substances from paint production into the
food market. Clever marketing tricks are in
some cases creating price mark-ups of
10,000%. I spoke to a dealer who said he
recognized the toxicity of linseed oil and
wouldn’t use it himself, but that the profit
was so big he was going to keep selling it.

An acquaintance who died recently after
several months of eating large amounts of
Jinseed oil told me that it had been used by
botr. W.F. Koch, M.D. and Max Gerson,
M.D. I knew this wasn’t true: For example,
Gerson’s program evolved from a diet for
migraine and tuberculosis into a cancer
therapy, and involved the use of thyroid
extract, liver, fresh juices, andalittle butter,
but over and over he said “absolutely no oil.”
My friend sent me a page from Gerson’s
book, containing the recommendation for 1
tablespoon of linseed oil. My copy of the
Gerson book, published while he was alive,
contains no such statement on that page,
but rather the phrase in bold capital letters,
NO OILS! My informant also assured me
that Gerson had known Budwig and
respected her work. Gerson’s book contains
detailed discussions of all the main dietary
approaches to cancer, with a large number
of references to the scientific literature, and
it did not mention Budwig at all. Since
Budwig’s proposals are diametrically
opposed to Gerson’s he would have had to
account for them ifhe had known of them.

The people who are using Max Gerson’s
name and reputation to sell linseed oil are
harming the people they mislead, and are
dishonoring Gerson’s important work. The
altered book is going to boggle the mind of
any thoughtful student who tries to
understand what Gerson was really doing.

Minarsich and Erasmus similarly invoke
the names of several great biochemists in
making their sales pitch for linseed oil. Any
serious student of biochemistry will
recognize the absurdity of their outline of
biochemistry, but the average readerislikely
to swallow the idea that Ms. Budwig
represents the culmination of a century of
scientific progress. Dale Alexander made a
career of the idea that cod liver oi] will
grease arthntic joints. Now a generation

>

Townsend Letter for Doctors February/March 1989

INDIVIDUAL
AMINO ACIDS

L-Arginine 335 450 S$ 8.60
L-Carnitine (50 gms 35.00
powder)
L-Cysteine HCL 335 450 16.50
GABA 335 450 13.50
L-Glutamine 300 500 12 00
Glycine 300 500 5.00
L-Histiaine 300 500 23.50
L-Lysine HCL 375 400 5.60
L-Metnio 400 375 3.20
L-Phen ime 358 420 16 00
DL-Phenyiaianine 400 375 25.50
L-Threonmne 335 450 20.00
L- Tryptophan 500 300 27.50

L- Tyrosine

Add $5.00 to powder price for capsules
28 individual amino acids available

AMINO ACID
BLENDS

Supar Blend af 21-500 mg Caps

125 Capsules 10.00
250 Capsules 18.50
500 Capsules 35.00
227 gms Pure Powder 30.00
Available with Vil / Min. -same pnce
BALANCER 227 gms
(Hypoglycemia) 15.00
505-450 mg Caps 20.00
BETA 150 gms
(Anxiety) 25.00
335-450 mq Caps 30.00
HEPATIC 227 gms
(Liver 25.00
568-400 mg Caps 30.00
WAC 227 gms
(Weignt 20 00
505-450 mg Caps 25.00

DOCTOR’S INFO.
PACKAGE FREE

a
a?

s

a

@ Case and Quantity Discounts
mw Privale Labeling Available

Custom Formulations Avaiaple

JO MAAR LABORATORIES
251 East Hacienda Ave.
Campbell. CA 95008

(800) 538-4545 (800) 847-8855 CA
24 Hour FAX (408) 374-5922

YT
Mone Letters

>

later, the vast food oil industry has a
slightly higher class of sales promoters. It
is urgent that we start developing a more
critical medical-scientific culture.

Research showing the toxic effects of
unsaturated oils goes back more than 60
years. A 1985 article published in my
newsletter cites some of the keyreferences.
These substances inhibit many enzymes
(e.g., in digestion, in immunity, in clot
removal, in thyroid function), they disrupt
mitochondrial energy production, and they
interfere with communication between
cells. We hear very little about these toxic
effects, and there is not much money
available for more research in these areas.
Naturally, these topics aren’t mentioned
in the Erasmus book. The “toxicity”
questions treatedin the book donotinclude
the toxicity of fresh and natural
unsaturated oils, and so they have the
function of a red herring, distracting the
reader.

For nearly 20 years, mainline medicine
has advocated the use of unsaturated oils
“to protect the heart.” A few scientists,
like HansSelye, kept telling the (contrary)
truth. Now big business has many people
in “alternative medicine” falling for the
false establishment story.

Reference:

Ray Peat’s Newsletter, “Interactive
Toxicities of Unsaturated Oils and Iron,”
1985, 41.

Raymond Pear, Ph.D.
P.O. Box 3427
Eugene, Oregon 97403

Streptococcus Faecium Not
Faecalis

Editor:

Here are some comments concerning
acidophilus products and L. atidsphilus.

We believe that it is true that
acidophilus products for human use were,
in the past, mostly Lactobacillus caset,
ssp, rhamnosus, especially in European
countries. Today, a large percentage of
products of lactic bacteria for human use
contain twoor more species of lactobacilli,
bifidobacteria and streptococci. That is

the result ofnewer knowledge of the lactic
flora of the intestinal tract. It is now
known that normal intestinal flora

contains, per gram of feces, billions of
bifidobacteria and millions of lactobacilli
and streptococci.

Most important species of bifidobacteria
found in the intestinal tract are
Bifidobacterium infantis, B. adolescentis,
B. longum, B. brevis and B. bifidum.
Lactobacilli include mainly Lactobacillus
casei, ssp. rhamnosus, L. fermentum, L.
acidophilus and L. sativarius. L. bulgaricus
and L. lactis are not adapted to intestinal
conditions. They may be found in the
intestinal tract when they are regularly
ingested in large amount. Thatis the case of
L. bulgaricus for yogurt consumers.
However, the survival does not exceed 7 to
10 days after heavy and prolonged
consumption. Lactic streptococci, especially
S. faecium and S, thermophilus, are normal
and highly beneficial inhabitants of the
intestines. S. faecium is most important for
the colonization of the intestinal mucosa,
assuring protection of the organism against
infection by harmful microorganisms.

Rose}) institute, Inc., the “Montreal-based
bulk dairy culture producer,” was
incorporated in 1934. It was founded by
three professors of OKA Agricultural
Institute: Dr. J.M. Rosell, Dr.G. Toupinana
myself. Rosell Institute Inc. is a
Microbiological Institution specializing in
the production of microorganisms for the
food industry, soil fertilization, human and
animal prophylaxis and therapeutics. Its
technology and teachings have followed
scientific developments.

One ofthe numerous species oflactobacilli
produced by Rosell Institute for human use
is Lactobacillus caset, ssp. rhamnosus. L.
rhamnosus is very different from L. casei.
Differences concern morphology,
physiological characteristics, antibiotic
activities and immunological properties.
Some strains of L. casei are well adapted to
cheese aging. L. rhamnosus is probably the
most important species of lactobacilli. It is
well adapted to intestinal conditions, has
good activity against harmful microbes and
contributes to development of immunity.
Moreover, it is much more potent, prolific,
ubiquitous and efficient than L. acidophilus.

From 1910 to about 1970, lactobacilli
isolated from feces or intestinal tract were
venerally called Lectobacillus acidophilus.
That name was applied to lactobacilli from
intestinal origin used for experimentation
with humans and animals. Experimental
reports very seldom mention full identity of
the concerned lactobacilli. The results were
attributed to L. acidophilus. How often was
it true? When practical and extensive
identity tests were available, it appeared
that Lactobacillus acidophilus products

contained almost exclusively
Lactobacillus rhamnosus. That was the
situation in Europe and America. A few
products contained L. fermentum; one
product contained L. acidophilus.

Storage Conditions

All species oflacticbacteria have longer
life and better stability at low temperature.
Our testson lactobacilli and bifidobacteria,
extended over some decades, have shown
an average monthly decrease in the
number oflivingcellsof 1% under freezing
conditions, 2% under refrigeration and
5% at room temperature. These data
concern only freeze-dried cultures. Cells
of Streptococcus faecium are three to four
times more resistant than those of
lactobacilli and bifidobacteria.
Consequently, it is important to store
lactic cultures at low temperatures as
much as possible.

Good atability requires also low
moisture content. Lactic cultures must be
packed in air and moisture-proof
containers.

Mix of microorganisms.

In theintestinal tract, thereisnaturally
amixture of several species of lactobacilli,
bifidobacteria andlactic streptococci under
normal conditions. For severa] reasons,
such norma! flora may be partially or
almost completely destroyed. It is then
very important to re-implant or re-
establish that flora for the protection of
the organism and prevention of
putrefaction and toxicity.

Though one adequate species of lactic
bacteria, adapted tointestinal conditions,
may be highly beneficial it is more logical
to consume several species, provided they
grow well together and do not show
incompatibility or antibjosis. Aerobic
lactobacilli will help anaerobic
bifidobacteria by creating better growth
conditions and each species may
contribute to better nutrition of the whole
population. There is such a thing as
symbiosis and synergism.

Rosell] Institute produces and freeze-
dries all the important species of
lactobacilli, bifidobacteria and lactic
streptococci. [t cooperates with
nutritionists, doctors and distributors of
Health Products to inform them properly
and supply them with the mixtures of
lactic bacteria that they wish for their
specific needs.

“Something dophilus”
It 18 true that several companies use
the word “dophilus” in their brand names.

Townsend Letter for Doctors February/March i989
