Lost Conversations with Ray Peat #2: Theology, Lenin's Matter, Wagging the Moondoggie, MK-NAOMI, and AIDS

"Everything is changing through time, whether it's a word, or an organism, or a thing. The world around it changes, and so its relationships change." — Ray Peat (2019)

by Danny Roddy

Recorded February 28th, 2019

Danny Roddy: Hey, Ray. It's Danny Roddy. Just calling to catch up. Seeing if this is a good time-

Ray Peat: Hello.

Danny Roddy: Ray, hey.

Ray Peat: Yep. Hi.

Danny Roddy: How are you?

Ray Peat: Good.

Danny Roddy: Is Chomsky hyper-rational? I think I've been prejudiced against listening to him since you talked, you might have thought he was a clown or something.

Ray Peat: I ran across his work 1959 just after his first publication on generative grammar. I very quickly got the impression that, not that he was a Pentagon agent directly, but that he was working against life and humanity by that approach to what others were calling computable information approach to logic and language. Computable meaning that it never changes. The ideal language, that's what I was studying in '59 and '60 was the history of ideal languages. By, I think it was 1920 when Bertrand Russell realized that language just doesn't work that way, and that not only are ideal languages for communication, not only are they impossible, but the impossibility extends to philosophical logic. The computers can compute, but they always miss the subtlety of context.

Danny Roddy: With Jay's approach, I thought he was hitting more targets than he was missing. A long time ago, I heard you say you thought religious people talked more sensibly about evolution than atheist people. I guess the, it's-

Ray Peat: Yeah, and-

Danny Roddy: Go ahead.

Ray Peat: Chomsky does very good work on describing imperialism, except when he gets to the colonial Israel relation to the Palestinians. He doesn't want to take a stand there, but everything he does on describing empire is perfectly valid, but it's at the very base of his professional linguistics doctrine where his mind is absolutely defective.

Danny Roddy: Are you guys the same age?

Ray Peat: Yeah, he's several years older than me.

Danny Roddy: He doesn't look like he's doing too well. In your reply, if I understood it right, you were saying that consciousness is inherently empathetic and has implicit mutual aid-

Ray Peat: Yeah, it's the idea of overlapping fields in the material world, as well as the communication logic world. Everything is changing through time, whether it's a word, or an organism, or a thing. The world around it changes, and so its relationships change. Overlapping fields are everywhere. Anything that's accurate is only a rough approximation.

Danny Roddy: Well, in that case, are the postmodernists kind of right in a way?

Ray Peat: Yeah. The project of showing the manipulative quality, culture as political imposition, it's good to break that down and show how phony it is, but they break everything down including animal reality. I think you have to start and end with the experience of being an animal in the world.

Danny Roddy: Would that approach be called something? 'Cause I, I mean, I'm not a philosophy person, but I feel like you're the only person saying that.

Ray Peat: Yeah. They, people like Chomsky call us vitalists, and animists, and primitive thinkers.

Danny Roddy: That was in Carl Lindegren's book. I think he used that word too, right?

Ray Peat: I think so.

Danny Roddy: When somebody is claiming that a child is trans that doesn't relate to the animal vitalist point of view? And is just a warped cultural thing?

Ray Peat: Yeah.

Danny Roddy: Do you think Jay is not accounting for the animal nature or the inherent properties of consciousness with his ultra-logical position?

Ray Peat: Yeah. Bertrand Russell, besides being a ruling class jerk, he was really intelligent and realized, he basically said, "Philosophy like this is impossible," and went into social thinking. Around 1920, he said, "The Leibniz idea that to define anything, you have to specify where it is in time and space, and things are always, any single thing is infinitely complex because of the way it's related to other things." He said, "If we think that way, we can't do logic."

Danny Roddy: It's a fool's errand to get into these style of debates, you think? Or is it our path to some kind of truth to it?

Ray Peat: No, I think it's like tennis.

Danny Roddy: Well, that's good to know. Then, you told somebody somewhere that your idea was more like process theology. I've watched a few videos on that, but maybe you would replace God with consciousness. Is that right?

Ray Peat: Well, existence. I think Lenin gave a very good definition of matter. He said, "Everything we know is just memory and it's not matter. Everything we know comes from matter, and so matter is everything we don't know. Matter is possibility in the future." Nothing like the so-called materialists or religionists think of matter. Matter is nothing except what we can know and become.

Danny Roddy: I'm probably thinking about this too simplistically, but is that just the admission that we don't know that there is consciousness and memory, but it doesn't have to have ... The starting point is obscure?

Ray Peat: Yeah. You could make good guesses in all directions, but you can't work anything out in terms of forms, like that idea of Greek forms and atoms being number.

Danny Roddy: Is taking the leap to a specific creator not warranted?

Ray Peat: Yeah. If you have to leap, you're not there. The experience of, like Lenin said, that we have knowledge and experience, but where it comes from is always beyond what we know. It's always the future and potentiality. That means we're experiencing the nature of matter constantly. The present and the potential of our experience is what matter is. That's also the creative essence, which they call, "God," and put remotely somewhere else.

Danny Roddy: That's the idea behind process theology. It was this continual creation that things are in flux. Does that trend into the William James’ radical empiricism idea?

Ray Peat: Yep, yep.

Danny Roddy: Thank you for that. I really like Jay, and thought he was bringing up interesting questions.

Ray Peat: Yeah. All of those topics are very important to analyze, and discuss, and break down.

Danny Roddy: The philosophy stuff or the CIA stuff?

Ray Peat: No, the conspiracy stuff, yeah, that he talks about.

Danny Roddy: Are you in the heart of it in Oregon? The CIA culture stuff seemed very noticeable in San Francisco.

Ray Peat: No, I haven't run into that. There were discussion groups in the anti-war movement here that was huge. In Salvador, some of the people said they thought Eugene was a state, because so many people came from there, but it was a focus of anti-contra, anti-Reagan war activity. But at that time, there were people who had that abstract idea that you couldn't have ideas if you were the wrong color.

Danny Roddy: While we're on the topic of conspiracy, I remember being a little kid and watching Fox. They aired that program about the moon landing being fake [I mixed up Fox’s Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon? (2001) with Alien Autopsy: Fact or Fiction? (1995)]. I don't know how to describe how it lit up my imagination. Again, I know it's not a lie like 9/11 or something that gets us into these never-ending wars, but I mean… All this analysis. That shows that it's totally phony, right?

Ray Peat: Yeah. There's a Russian guy that did really good analysis of the pictures [https://www.aulis.com/stereoparallax.htm]. Not just the direction of shadows, but multi-point of view analysis of the landscape. It's the best one I've seen. I don't remember his name, though. I have a copy somewhere.

Danny Roddy: Did you watch the ISS video [https://twitter.com/dannyroddy/status/1153723477863440384] I sent you? It seems like they're still lying. They’ve had many mess-ups in the ISS videos where you can clearly see wires, etc. Then somebody else pointed out that they're likely using augmented reality to flip hats and things. Why do you think they go to such great lengths to instill some view of space and science to the public? Because I know they're doing these live feeds to lots of kids in school and stuff.

Ray Peat: Oh, yeah. I think the main thing is indoctrinating the public with their unlimited power.

Danny Roddy: Do you think we've ever left low Earth orbit?

Ray Peat: I have no idea.

Danny Roddy: I ask because of the Van Allen belts — do you think it's possible to get out of that amount of radiation unscathed?

Ray Peat: Not economically. The shielding that it takes is so immense. I think the only technology would be that tower at the equator. A big elevator a hundred miles tall, skyscraper tower.

Danny Roddy: Did they build something like that?

Ray Peat: No, but the calculations have shown that it would be a very economical, a dollar or two for electricity to hoist you up into orbit.

Danny Roddy: When you were hearing about the Apollo missions, did you think to yourself that it was all fake?

Ray Peat: At that time, I considered the government to be pure, pure demons all the way through. I just didn't think that was needing any interpretation at the time. I was interested in who was about to be murdered by them.

Danny Roddy: Also, in the few of our talks, you said that Kennedy was a bad person. Were you thinking of anything specific? 'Cause I got a few emails saying, "Why did Ray mention that Kennedy was bad?" At least, for myself, I've only heard good things about him in my lifetime, but again, that’s through the school indoctrination scheme.

Ray Peat: At that time, that was where vote no for president originated. People were saying, "This guy is campaigning on the basis that Nixon was soft on communism, and we've got to be more militant." He had been briefed that Eisenhower was preparing to invade Cuba. He was supposed to keep that quiet, but he campaigned and said, "Eisenhower's a wimp. We gotta go after Cuba."

Danny Roddy: Okay. So he really was instigating that whole mess?

Ray Peat: Yes. Very more pro-war than anyone had been up to that time.

Danny Roddy: It seems like Allen Dulles was the person instigating that, and that Kennedy didn't really want to go into Cuba?

Ray Peat: Yeah. When he got more information, he saw that it would be a very stupid thing, but still, he was letting Dulles prepare clues. Just before he died, he said, "Well, we won't do it right away, but be ready to overthrow Goulart in Brazil." He set that up, which happened a year or two after he died. It was a lance for progress and Peace Corps were purely integrated into imperialism.

Danny Roddy: Off-topic, but I sent you some email about biological warfare, and you had mentioned Fort Detrick as a place where atrocities had occured? Then yesterday, I was reading about MKNAOMI, the CIA biological weapons thing. It mentioned Robert Gallo. Was that what you were referring to? Or no?

Ray Peat: No. In 1968 and '69, I was teaching a whole bunch of free university courses in Eugene. One of them was on, I think in the fall of '69, it was something to do with the CIA's actions. People, maybe 20 people came. We talked for an hour and a half or so. Most of the people left. One guy in his 20s hung back, and after everyone had left, he ... I think his phrase was, "Do you have a number?" I said, "What do you mean?" He made gestures and meant did I have any marijuana? He was trying to be friendly and I didn't understand him, but anyway. He explained that he was interested in thinking that because I was a graduate student in biology and talking about the CIA that I would be a person for him to talk to.

Ray Peat: He said he had just quit his job at Fort Detrick, because he was so horrified by what they were doing. I think it was, maybe it was the winter term of '69, but at that time, the, what do you call it? The human complex, their initials for it referred to the category on white blood cells. Anyway, the human antigen complex specifies what tissues can be transplanted easily. That wasn't in our journals, in the public journals and in the graduate school courses that I was aware of. That hadn't been invented yet. He was talking about this racial differences in immune complexes on the surfaces of cells that made racially specific viruses possible. He said, "That's their main project is to create a virus that will destroy the population of Africa, as well as most American blacks."

Ray Peat: Since none of that stuff was known in conventional biology, I thought it didn't seem like a big threat. It was so hypothetical that there would be racial differences that viruses could recognize and kill, but anyway. We talked for a couple of hours. I guess he wasn't satisfied that he had made me aware of the evil things that were happening at Fort Detrick. But what he was doing obviously was what could get him killed. If I had believed him, it could have been worse for him. Never saw him again.

Danny Roddy: I watched a video saying exactly what you just described. I guess they left a paper trail. I think the doctor that spearheaded the whole thing is named Robert Gallo. Apparently, he had combined multiple types of viruses together or something to create HIV.

Ray Peat: Yeah. Two different people analyzed the, after the HIV virus was identified, two different virologists identified the components as the visna. V-I-S-N-A. Maedi-visna virus. A well established, so-called slow virus combined with another virus. It showed that it had been engineered genetically from existing viruses.

Danny Roddy: I mean, that sadly doesn't surprise me, but can't a person express HIV, the retrovirus just under extreme stress? Or am I thinking about hepatitis?

Ray Peat: Yeah. The different, hepatitis B and C are probably endogenous in a large part of people. At least the antigens that they are studying for HIV have, when they looked back at the inducted military blood tests that were frozen going back to about 1960, I think they had representative blood samples of draftees. Over the decades, there was, I think it was my first, what I heard first was .5% are positive. When I mentioned that to Peter Duesberg, he said, "No, .4% positive," I think is what he said. But anyway, the military information showed that there was an endemic, stable percentage of the population that showed that particular antigen.

Danny Roddy: I'm a little confused. They were infecting the military? Or that was just a subset of the population?

Ray Peat: That was just a picture of the population, but it shows that it's endemic [crosstalk 00:25:25]-

Danny Roddy: The antigen, that can just stay with somebody forever?

Ray Peat: Yeah. A great part of our genes, I think some people have said 60% or more of our genes might be retrovirus residue. A German guy has been publishing for several years showing that when we eat food, cabbage, or beef, or whatever, we assimilate and our cells take up and integrate the DNA from our food, so we're-

Danny Roddy: Cabbage DNA.

Subcribe here on Substack or on t.me/dannyroddy for exclusive content.

Type your email…
Subscribe
Ray Peat: Yeah. That probably is part of how evolution happens, that we store up everyone else's DNA that we can get, and check it intermittently for its potential usefulness to us.

Danny Roddy: Do you think Szent-Györgyi was right? I think he said that life originated in the ocean. Do you subscribe to the semi-typical way that evolution is described? Or is it completely different?

Ray Peat: Sidney Fox showed that you can create, in a lab with a hot rock and powdered free amino acids, and splash some water onto a gob of simple amino acids at a high temperature. 240 degrees or something like that. They spontaneously polymerize into proteins. The proteins spontaneously form little one micron spheres. There happen to be precursors to the nucleic acids added. The proteins in these little micro spheres, some of them act as enzymes that form changes of the nucleic acid precursors. They made nucleic acids. All of the components, Sidney Fox showed you can make in a high school chemistry lab in a couple hours.

Danny Roddy: That's one of the reasons vaccines are really risky, right?

Ray Peat: Yeah. They're designed to trigger inflammation. We normally deal with antigens, like when we eat them, they don't cause inflammation. When you look at what's circulating in the blood, we're always having little vesicles containing nucleic acids. Some just balls of pure nucleic acid floating around in our blood. Everyone does, all the time. Some of those are coming from a cell that's under stress sending out signals to other cells that can respond and send back repair information. They've demonstrated that a stressed lung cell emits these vesicles with nucleic acids. The liver picks them up, identifies them, and sends back basically lung stem cells [crosstalk 00:29:04]-

Danny Roddy: For renewal, yeah.

Ray Peat: Interacting, and renewing, and repairing. But when we eat nucleic acids, those join that stuff that's circulating in the bloodstream. They don't cause inflammation. Normally, they get apparently inserted and integrated into our DNA. That probably is a reservoir for nonrandom, when you're under stress, you blow out some of this antigenic material that shows up as having hepatitis C or B, or HIV, or whatever. But under stress, what it's doing is increasing our ability to adapt. That was what Lysenko showed way back, 1930s, and what Barbara McClintock showed in 1950 that got her very unpopular with the genetics people. Until the genetic engineers wanted to make artificial food organisms using, moving around genes. They gave the MacArthur Prize, or Nobel Prize, or both to McClintock, just to resurrect someone that they had knocked out of the science world.

Danny Roddy: I've been reading a little bit about the cerebral cortex. I think when we first talked, what was it? March of 2017? You had mentioned the hair on the head being related to the brain. I thought that was an intriguing idea. I had never come across anything in my general reading about hair loss. But then reading about the actual brain… Something has clicked in a way that it hadn't clicked before.I think I had stole a reference from you saying that when a deprivation occurs, it's actually the cerebral cortex that's most harmed by it. Then I was reading about its glycogen, and I should've written it down, but maybe it was susceptible to some, maybe it relied on glycogen rather, and that-

Ray Peat: Yeah. Yeah.

Danny Roddy: Anyways, insulin, so-called insulin resistance or whatever, or stress in general, that would have an acute or, in the long-term, devastating effect on the cerebral cortex. Is that-

Ray Peat: Yeah, because when your blood sugar goes down, you release into the blood free fatty acids. If those get into the brain, and the brain being very fatty, it takes up huge amounts of fat out of the blood. If you have PUFA circulating as free fatty acids, then you're constantly poisoning your brain every time your blood sugar goes down, which happens generally at night.

Danny Roddy: That makes sense to me, but would a normal, mainstream person say the blood-brain barrier protected against that?

Ray Peat: Oh, yeah. Yeah, the blood-brain barrier really hasn't existed forever, but people are still ... The first thing I saw about fat, they injected an emulsion of soy oil into rats with a labeled, carbon label. They think, or maybe tritium, but anyway, it instantly got into their brain. They showed that 17, injecting it into the carotid artery and measuring what came out in the jugular vein and what stayed in the brain, 17% of a single injection stuck in the brain.

Danny Roddy: I think I sent some reference to you that, oh, it was talking about the brain regulating itself. Then that made me think about somewhere you had talked about Pavlov, or maybe you had just said that you thought the cortex, what did you say? The link between the organism and its environment. That would include the dullness of life dulling the brain, lowering its metabolism, losing the hair. The cultural and environmental things in addition to the nutritional things…

Ray Peat: Yeah. The cortex is, the most massive part of it is the frontal lobes. It has a temperature gradient, and has to be cool to get organized, and keep things in order. I think that's what the forehead should be bare to have that temperature gradient. Hot in the center and decreasing temperature in the cortex, but especially at the frontal cortex where planning happens.

Danny Roddy: In puberty, I have a few references that say it's very typical that males and females will start losing the temple hair loss. Do you associate that with the puberty stress of the high estrogen? Not so much the frontal lobes, 'cause I was confused on where these things were, but is that near the dorsal lateral areas of the brain, or a little higher than that? Or is that too mechanical?

Ray Peat: I think that the speech center is somewhat being cleared out to have that planning function, where it's cooler than the core and rear part of the brain.

Danny Roddy: But, well, I guess what I'm saying is would it be completely incorrect to say the parts where hair was being lost was associated with problematic or deprived regions of the brain?

Ray Peat: No. I think there's a healthy cooling of the frontal lobes.

Danny Roddy: Oh, okay. So some degree of hair loss would be desirable?

Ray Peat: Well, yeah. The normal, little kids generally have very high foreheads. I think that's part of the, they grow hair on the back and sides, and then top. I think they leave the front bare so it can cool itself more easily by radiation.

Danny Roddy: You had replied to somebody about taking dutasteride saying, "The stress is increasing the hair growth." I think I was thinking about 5AR inhibitors incorrectly. Whenever something was regrowing hair, I was thinking, "Oh, it must be having some positive effect." But then I thought about minoxidil, and that's increasing nitric oxide and vasodilation increasing blood flow at the expense of all the tissues. So with 5AR inhibitors, you’re lowering DHT, and that's having an pro-nitric oxide effect?

Ray Peat: Yeah. Disorganizing the whole organism, because the reductase inhibitor is messing up all parts of your body. It just happens to affect hair growth, but it messes up deeper parts of the brain and other organs.

Danny Roddy: I guess, if somebody regrew hair with Propecia, that would be a bad, that wouldn't be some beneficial, positive-

Ray Peat: If it's just topical, I don't think that does too much to the rest of the organism, but when they take it systemically, I think that's very dangerous.

Danny Roddy: And with castration, not only does it virtually gets rid of testosterone, but it also gets rid of its source — estrogen. Then I found a few papers that said it was, radically lowered serotonin too.

Ray Peat: I suspect that, that's how it's working.

Danny Roddy: Then, do you have any perspective on pseudo hermaphrodites? Despite my best effort, I don't really know what's happening there.

Ray Peat: Pseudo in what sense?

Danny Roddy: That group of maybe Papua New Guinea people, they called them pseudo hermaphrodites, which means penis at 12. They'd be raised as women until 12 years old, then the testicles would drop.

Ray Peat: No, I haven't paid much attention to them. In Greece, there was a group that had both organs.

Danny Roddy: Do you think that's just a problem with development?

Ray Peat: Yeah. I think it's something interfering with the basic development early in the embryo.

Danny Roddy: This is how the crazy finasteride drug came about because they found those people, they saw that they had a 5AR deficiency, I guess, and that had no DHT. They were like, "Oh, baldness isn't because of testosterone. It's because of DHT," and then they created the crazy 5AR drug, I guess. Do you think lidocaine is safe to use every day?

Ray Peat: In large amounts, it is very, very slightly potentially carcinogenic to the liver, but no one has ever seen it happen. It's that it's metabolized when concentrated and given separately are carcinogenic, but giving the lidocaine, all the effects are anti-carcinogenic.

Danny Roddy: But 50 to 100 milligrams per day? Do you think that is overkill?

Ray Peat: Yeah.

Danny Roddy: That's okay?

Ray Peat: No, I think it's safe.

Danny Roddy: Would that be something that you would consider an anti-stress, anti-aging, extremely safe thing for prolonged use?

Ray Peat: Yeah. I for a while kept a dish, and tried to remember to take some all the time, but something happened and I forgot about it, but it's something I would mean to do if I remembered.

Danny Roddy: I do the same thing. The lidocaine hydrochloride is widely available here. Is that safe?

Ray Peat: Yeah. It's water-soluble is the difference.

Danny Roddy: Okay, cool. I was interested in that, because my perception of hearing you talk over the last few years seemed like you were searching for a safe antihistamine. The mushrooms, and trying the cyproheptadine earlier, and, but do you feel like you had fulfilled that with the ... Again, my timeline of what you do, you are or aren't doing is probably totally, massively screwed up, but do you feel like you fulfilled that with something else?

Ray Peat: Caffeine, progesterone, aspirin, and when I remember it, lidocaine.

Danny Roddy: I've been experimenting with the progesterone DHEA since probably last year. Using a 1:3 mixture of Progest-E to DHEA, I tried the 1/8th of a teaspoon on my leg, which I think was around five milligrams of progesterone and 1.6 of DHEA and it felt good. Then I tried even more, which I thought might interfere with libido, but didn’t. When I think about what's different now than maybe a year ago I feel like I have the thyroid more dialed in now. I'm sure you're more acutely aware of this than anybody, but there are so many things that interfere with, I mean, influence libido. How high on a scale do you think the progesterone and DHEA mixture ... In theory, should that not interfere with a person's libido?

Ray Peat: I think it generally increases it.

Danny Roddy: That's exactly what I noticed, 'cause I was trying the 1/8th a teaspoon, and then I tried 1/8th a teaspoon three times. So to 15 and five, and it, everything felt better. I was-

Ray Peat: Yeah. I think it's safe up to around, depending on your age, but a 15-year-old makes maybe 15 milligrams a day of DHEA. A 90-year-old makes one or so milligrams. If you're 80, probably 15 milligrams might be safe, but I limit myself to about two milligrams still.

Danny Roddy: Of DHEA. Do you know the progesterone difference between the ages?

Ray Peat: It's very similar. You need lots of it in the 40s, generally, but that's when your accumulation of PUFA tends to start producing problems. But still, the ratio of a little more progesterone to DHEA, I think, is always good.

Danny Roddy: You're not married to the one to three? Where did that come from?

Ray Peat: That was a mixture that I made for people with various problems, especially arthritis. Both men and women had the need for one or the other. I found that the progesterone wouldn't de-testeronize the man, and the DHEA wouldn't grow whiskers on the women if there was that, I think it was a three to one ratio. It worked adequately for both of them, and it was just that it was practical to mix it once and give it to both.

Danny Roddy: Tell me if you have to go, but is it ever useful to eat less than one egg per day? Or is that always like shooting yourself in the foot?

Ray Peat: In Mexico, do you know where you get, what they're feeding their chickens?

Danny Roddy: There's a really good market close to me, and the woman has their own farm. I haven't specifically asked her what they're feeding, but the eggs are always really, really good.

Ray Peat: Yeah. When you know they're getting a lot of tortillas and such things with the corn extracted, so it doesn't have so much PUFA in it, those are the best. Then, I think it's better than eating liver once a week, to have one or two of those good eggs every day.

Danny Roddy: Oh, really? So you could replace liver with eggs?

Ray Peat: Very similar. Uh huh.

Danny Roddy: I bring it up because somebody had posted that you had mentioned you shot for around 1.5 grams of PUFA per day. It seemed like two or three quarts of milk and an egg and some cheese would be about that?

Ray Peat: Yeah. Just very rough, but as long as you're well under four grams a day, you're pretty safe. But I just like to be as extreme as possible. You know the experiment of William Brown?

Danny Roddy: Yes, the guy that experienced less fatigue when eliminating fat. I maybe had one other thing to ask you. Oh, what kind of microwave do you have? I've had a hard time finding any microwave that didn't leak excessively.

Ray Peat: We've had it for years. We just looked up, I guess, Consumers Report or something. We have our TriField Meter. If you stand three or four feet away from it, you can't detect any field.

Danny Roddy: I have an Acousticom 2 RF meter, and when I press the microwave button, and then go to the other room, the meter will register very high — like six volts per meter.

Ray Peat: Yeah, you probably should, do you have a ground connection on your electric circuit?

Danny Roddy: No. I wish. I need to read more about. You have to plug in one of those things and it will tell you if it's a ground, right?

Ray Peat: Yeah. If you just look inside the box and see three wires, one of them is a ground.

Danny Roddy: If it didn't have a ground, that would maybe explain why it was so crazy?

Ray Peat: Yeah.

Danny Roddy: Good to know. Do you have any recommendations for shielding a room?

Ray Peat: Well, it depends. The new 5G thing is so high frequency. With the old wavelengths where they were a few inches, chicken wire on the wall facing the transmitters, if you put a wire down and stick a nail in the ground and attach it to the chicken wire on that side of your house, that's enough.

Danny Roddy: But you're saying that wouldn't work with 5G?

Ray Peat: Yeah. The grid has to be a smaller mesh if it's 5G.

Danny Roddy: Then your house, did you paint it?

Ray Peat: No. This one is a cement block house, and I guess it has reinforcing bars in it that seem to shield it. Telephones don't work inside the house.

Danny Roddy: Oh, cool. Yeah, it's like when I got that meter, it was enlightening and stressful at the same time.

Ray Peat: Oh, yeah.

Danny Roddy: Yeah, so [crosstalk 00:55:28]-

Ray Peat: And-

Danny Roddy: Go ahead.

Ray Peat: If you can see a tower, then you should put some chicken wire between you and the tower, and any kind of a ground connection. Plumbing is a good ground. Put a little wire to your closest faucet.

Danny Roddy: Oh, okay. So I could attach a wire to the actual faucet?

Ray Peat: Yeah, that's deeply embedded in the ground.

Danny Roddy: Oh, wow. I would've never thought of that. You could just wrap a little copper wire and then attach it to that?

Ray Peat: Mm-hmm.

Danny Roddy: Okay, really cool. Okay, Ray. I think that was more than everything. I sincerely appreciate it. What are you working on right now?

Ray Peat: I think the next newsletter is just going to be on supplements and some on pollution. The various particulate things in the environment in particular. I'm getting tired of the silica titanium dioxide poisoning that everyone is getting. I'm gonna give some more propaganda against it.

Danny Roddy: Well, that supplements episode we did is the most popular conversation we've ever had.

Ray Peat: Really? What did we talk about then?

Danny Roddy: I called it Safe Supplements. Then we went through the history of you getting people off their supplements. I've taken that to heart, because I feel like I've had similar experiences. The more supplements I added, it felt like the worse my health got. Awesome. Ray, please tell Katherine I said, "Hello." Thank you so much. I sincerely appreciate it.

Ray Peat: Okay. Thank you.

Danny Roddy: Okay. Talk to you soon, Ray.

Ray Peat: Mm-hmm. Bye.

Danny Roddy: All right. Bye.

