 Specializing in healthy kitchenware and food preserving supplies like stainless steel dehydrators and old-world pickling crocks Organic Grace is on the main street in Garberville and is on the web at OrganicGrace.com And as usual throughout the broadcast day the views and opinions expressed on Redwood Community Radio are those of the speakers and not necessarily those of the listeners, sorry, certainly not necessarily those of listeners, but not necessarily those of the station, the underwriters, and the people who are watching this broadcast. Or the Board of Directors. And it could easily be sarcasm, but of course, sarcasm is totally easy to understand on the radio, so you would know it if it is. And without further ado, we'll get to our next talk show, which is Ask Your Herb Doctor.!........ Thanks for watching! 1. You Well, thank you once again. This is Ask Your Herb Doctor, KMUD, Garbleville, 91.1 FM. My name's Andrew Murray, and for those of you who perhaps have never listened to the show, which runs every third Friday of the month from seven till eight PM, I'm a licensed medical herbalist who trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. My wife and I run a clinic in Garbleville where we consult with clients about a wide range of conditions and recommend herbal medicines and dietary advice. And has become very consistent with the last couple of years. Dr. Pete is happily joining us on the show to share his latest discoveries in his research. So you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KME-D Gabriel 91.1 FM and from 7.30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock, you're invited to call in with any questions either related or unrelated to this month's subject of nitric oxide. The number if you live in the area is 923 3911 or if you live outside the area the toll free number is 1800 KMUDRAD and we can be reached toll free on 1 888 WBMERB for consultations or further information Monday through Friday 9 to 5. So Dr. Pete thanks so much for joining us again. For those perhaps people have never heard you, would you......give an outline of your academic and professional background so that people can understand the work that you've been doing? First, I studied for a master's degree at the University of Oregon in literature-related things and then studied linguistics for a while. Then I finally came back to study biology, 1968-72, specializing in physiology of reproduction and aging. And especially the biochemical side of aging physiology. understand the context in which we're talking about as a product. I think the very first question that I wanted to pose, given that the compound manufactured by Pfizer will be well known to many, both in its generic form and in the off-counter or other brand label types of product, being Viagra. Nitric oxide has a majorly has a A vasodilatory effect as I understand it and that's just one of them though I guess that's mediated by Viagra and that drug is approved or has an FDA approval for erectile dysfunction What is it about nitric oxide that makes it so dangerous and responsible for things like cardiac arrest? stroke arrhythmias and Also increased ocular pressure, which most people wouldn't even associate with Viagra, but I've had several people who have used it and have had heart attack and stroke, and that prompted me to even look at it as being something that should definitely be taken seriously, and I know also the kind of recreational drug users who use poppers, exactly the same compound, has some very damaging effects on the body. What's your take on nitric oxide? Speaking of poppers, several of the early theorists... of AIDS were blaming it on the whatever the chemical is, I guess it's nitric oxide that's produced from the poppers, some kind of nitric compound anyway, and they were arguing that that in itself was enough to account for the the AIDS among the people who were using that as a a pleasure drug. But in the 1980s, everyone knew nitric oxide primarily as a toxic component of smog. And so when people started discovering that it was being produced in small amounts in the body, immediately they started looking for the parallels with smog poisoning, a lung injury circulatory....disease and so on. And one of the first things they found was that it kills the beta cells in the pancreas that produce insulin. And so in the early 1940s there was this flurry of papers demonstrating that our internal smog is just as toxic as Los Angeles smog. But then the Viagra patent......and publicity came out in the later 1990s. And right then, suddenly the medical publications all found that it was a glorious, protective, natural......protecting just about every function you can think of......making you smarter, have more endurance, and all kinds of good things. But then, after a few years......because the investment in publicity started wearing off, and people started coming back to the diabetes-producing effects and looking at what it's actually doing biochemically, the basic way it causes harm probably is that it......is kind of parallel to the effects of carbon monoxide or cyanide in being a competitor for oxygen in the mitochondria, the enzymes that produce most of our energy. It, in several ways, knocks out not only the key final respiratory enzyme, cytochrome oxidase, but... it poisons the previous electron-transporting parts of the mitochondrion, too. So, simply turning off the energy supply can account for a lot of its problems. But it also, when you're stopping the oxidative run through the mitochondrion, the mitochondrion starts......leaking, in effect, electrons that have no place to go. And the whole cell shifts over to a reduced chemical state. The electrons aren't being constantly drawn down. And so the balance, if you imagine a stream of electrons falling steadily towards oxygen, when you cut off that, they accumulate and float....back and literally the reducing environment shifts the whole balance of the self-reduced sulfur compounds and it's expressed all the way out to the surface and the surface properties of the cell change. And there are some enzymes right across the surface so that this......reducing energy from inside the cell is available to reduce oxygen outside the cell since mitochondria aren't using it productively. In fact, this cloud of excess electrons flows through the enzyme called NADPH oxidase and directly reduces oxygen on the surface. And that produces super... Oxide, possibly toxic free radical, which then produces hydrogen peroxide. And in the immune cells that are under stress, that's considered productive because it helps to break down bacteria or whatever is exciting, disturbing the white blood cell. So this toxic oxidative burst has its useful aspects, but probably it's one of the better outcomes rather than just using the hydrogen peroxide directly or producing nitric oxide. There's hundreds of... Hydrogen peroxide can be used to oxidize chloride that is always present into hypochlorite which becomes one of the very strong germ-digesting chemicals that when the tigocite has eaten something then it's basically it's like Clorox. It helps break down the particle. Okay, so in general the nitric oxide forms a pretty energy wasteful mechanism and also damaging in its free radical producing effects. Yeah, this shift of the whole cell away from oxidation starts that whole process. People are still just starting to put together the whole picture of how it fits into physiology. It has its effects on the nervous system that people are now seeing that Parkinson's disease for example has the signs that nitric oxide is one of the central damaging components of the dopamine system. OK. Right, you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMID-Gavival 91.1 FM. From 7.30 till the end of the show at 8 o'clock, callers are invited to ask questions about this month's subject of nitric oxide and the ramifications thereof. It doesn't have to be specifically about this subject, I know people often call in about other subjects like Dr. Pete's well-versed in thyroid, etc. But the number here, if you're in the area, is 923-3911 or if you're outside the area, there's a toll-free number which is 1800-KMUD-RAD. So, so far as the damaging effects.....excuse me, of nitric oxide are concerned, there's... I think there was three species of nitric oxide, and the one I think that's most commonly referenced in PubMed and other scientific literature for its effects, both negative and for the small beneficial effect of its burst, energy burst effect on bacteria, et cetera, is the inducible nitric oxide synthase. And that's been implicated in causing an increased severity of disease in in quite a few different models One of which was a herpes simplex model and cephalitis Which is a brain inflammation in mice and then though I saw other references as well to chronic viral hepatitis in man Is definitely being aggravated by nitric oxide and potentially nitric oxide Suppression might be a useful medical treatment for people suffering from chronic hepatitis. What are the most reasonable ways of blocking nitric oxide synthesis in the body or at least managing its production and providing a buffer to it so that you can maintain the little nitric oxide that is beneficial whilst keeping in check any excess? The body has its various natural ways of keeping it under control. For example, progesterone inhibits the enzyme that makes nitric oxide, while estrogen excites and activates that enzyme. And so when the cell is stabilized by a generous amount of progesterone and related neuro steroids, the stabilizing things, including pregnenolone, those hold down the production. Anything that... irritates the cell and excites it, the endotoxin from the intestine is probably the biggest single constant promoter of the production of nitric oxide, and sometimes serotonin and histamine, which are produced in reaction to endotoxin and other irritating things, these can increase the risk of endotoxin. in various tissues, serotonin and histamine can increase the formation of nitric oxide. In some situations, caffeine and similar drugs that are known to have a variety of protective anti-toxic effects are acting by locally in the... a certain type of tissue turning down the nitric oxide production but in recent years the old dye or it was used as a treatment for malaria a hundred years ago called methylene blue it's a common lab chemical used for showing the presence of reducing compound for example vitamin C turns it white Lots of people use it to demonstrate Chemistry in a visible form It's being used for a tremendous variety of therapeutic purposes and simply by turning down nitric oxide which causes so many bad effects. Methylene blue is is having very positive effects in this great variety of things including herpes and other viral chronic viral diseases. The recent news about the Ebola virus some people have noticed that one of the things if the patient is going to die their nitric oxide level in the blood is very high and it's what is causing the blood vessels to leak and break down causing a blood to leak out every place that it shouldn't but you see something similar in ordinary influenza and other viral infections the blood vessels tend to become leaky and produce swelling and a lot of very common side effects that you see in diseases of all sorts what would what would you think would be a good short-term approach to that to block that from the what's available presently niacin amide and progesterone are things that are commonly available but uh methylene blue is uh probably when it's available it's probably a good emergency thing to uh turn off the massive amounts of overproduced nitric oxide. I did read an article I think there are several references to methylene blue and its use either promoting or suppressing depending on a dose and it seemed like very small amounts of methylene blue were having this favorable suppressive activity where larger amounts could actually cause Yes, some of the toxic toxicity experiments have been kind of ridiculous in which they feed rats the equivalent for a person it would be an ounce or two of crystalline methylene blue which it would just that amount of concentrated any chemical is going to be harmful but it's been 25 years ago someone did a very well-controlled study of severe depressed people 50 milligrams per day was all it took to relieve severe depression and the side effects of even many times higher doses than that are essentially zero. Two studies one by the NIH six years ago and one more recent gave graded doses up to what would be the equivalent of about four or five or six grams a day for a person of the crystalline material. Many times higher than the curative antidepressive dose. And they did it for the whole lifespan of rats and mice and saw no life-shortening effects in either rats or mice but in female mice. In both studies they saw an extension of the maximum life span with the highest dose and so in these ridiculously high doses many times I guess about 5 to 10 times higher than the dose Paul Ehrlich used more than a hundred years ago to treat malaria and he cured two cases of malaria you in a period of just a couple of weeks giving five doses a day of a hundred mg each time orally but with very much smaller doses you see changes in the brain and reduced stress and curing depression and so on but with several times higher doses than he used to cure malaria you you still don't see any harmful effects and in animal experiments it took one of the gigantic doses equivalent to I think it was about eight grams a day for a person before it stopped showing the simple antidepressive actions now do you think the the effects of methylene blue are there's probably multiple effects but I wonder if any of the electron quenching or electrical stabilizing activity of methylene blue might be responsible for interacting with different proteins and and that kind of that kind of yeah it one of the known mechanisms is that it can receive electrons from the mediator that receives them from glucose and NADH for example can be oxidized and then the methylene blue can pass those electrons on to the part of the mitochondrion that is still working bypassing damaged parts of the mitochondrion so it can act like the missing enzyme simply restoring mitochondrial function in subtler ways it for example the receptor that causes excitotoxic damage from overdoses of glutamic acid for example anything that is depleting the brain of energy while stimulating it activates these glutamate receptors and there are two sulfur groups in those proteins that respond to excitotoxins that methylene blue oxidizes those and turns off the receptor and stops the excitotoxic process and that's one of the ways the excitotoxic process is one of the things that turns on nitric oxide production going ahead and killing the cell that's why the excited state is uh toxic largely because of the production of of nitric oxide okay now i guess methylene blue it's not an fda controlled substance or anything i think it's fairly uh fairly widely available it's just a dye isn't it i think typically it's known as a dye i know it's a tissue stain um and fish stores use it i'm not sure how how they use it but it's for um sterilizing aquariums or something and the fish farmers use it to cure various fish infections. Okay, well people listening perhaps might want to start looking up methylene blue and its implications in the treatment and or prevention of different degenerative conditions. So extremely cheap I'm sure, not all patented, not controlled. And if there's some good studies coming out showing methylene blue's positive effects in blocking nitric oxide I think that could be well worth people looking at as an alternative to many of the drugs that people might be using for different conditions. I've counted about six different ways that methylene blue stops or blocks the production of nitric oxide. Do you want to share them? No, the excitotoxic thing was one, preventing excess polymerization of the microtubules. Another, the probably increasing progesterone production, inhibiting estrogen production. But probably the most important thing people should do is to start being critical about the tremendous amount of propaganda selling the idea that people should eat more arginine to increase their nitric oxide production. Wow, wow, yep, I don't know, it always amazes me how this stuff actually comes into circulation. Quote, common knowledge and how easily influenced the media is by Big Pharma. Anyway, not to go on too much about that because we could probably go on forever about how Big Pharma have their hooks all over. Anyway, it's coming up for 7.30, I've seen the lights flashing a couple of times and I don't know if anyone's on the line at the moment, no, shaking his head must have gone off, okay, no problem. You're listening to Ask Your Abdoctor on KMED Galapagos 91.1 FM. From now until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call him with any questions either related or unrelated to this month's subject of nitric oxide and how to control its damaging effects. Dr. Raymond Peet is with us in the studio. He's a pretty foremost authority on lots of different subjects surrounding hormones and aging and all the interactions of thereon. And he's with us in the show, so we'll be... Yeah, we have a caller on the line already look at that. Okay caller you're on the air and where you from? I'm from Southern Humboldt here. Okay. Yeah John wanted to know if all of the The estrogen imitators that are around us in the environment that we've created for ourselves to live in are also something that'll put us at risk. Very much, very much so, yeah. Yeah, okay. I think I've seen that bisphenol A activates nitric oxide production. There you go, and that's an estrogen promoter or a mimic. Yeah, okay, so environmental estrogen is very much a negative impact on our health, many of which have come from petrochemical industry, plastics industry, etc. Dr. Peay, what do you think are some of the most damaging environmental estrogens that you know of that are... Oh, the natural estrogen is... It's damaging enough. Yeah, it's through the sewage, it's getting into the rivers. For the environment, I think the natural estrogen and the birth control... Estrogens that are many times stronger than natural estrogen are showing up in all of the downstream waterways that receive sewage. Super board person, I can tell you that one of the ways that they tell whether water is coming from a sewage system or from nature is they look for caffeine that's considered one of the chemicals that makes it through and is a marker for sewage as opposed to, you know, animal waste or whatever. So, yeah, a lot of those chemicals do make it through. Okay, do we have any other questions? Yeah, the other part of my question was, is there a... a plant or an herb that actually produces or mimics methylene blue you can ingest instead of oh I'm I've been looking around at various molecules and it was a precursor for many of the drugs the tricyclic antidepressants and tricyclic antihistamines and anti-inflammatories, I think, all grew out of the dye industry that methylene blue was one of the very first examples of, but it's a three-ring molecule and that seems probably because it's structurally roughly the same size and shape as the steroid hormones. We probably can get into the many places that our natural steroids act. And so I've looked around at plants that make analogous things. The tetracyclines have many of the same anti-inflammatory effects. I suspect they're also working against nitric oxide. They have one extra ring but in a very similar arrangement. And vitamin K and vitamin E are even analogous in some ways. La Pacho, a chemical from a South American tree, it's a dye that has many of the anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer properties of methylene blue. Spell that. It's lapacho, it's a tababui impetiginosa, so T-A-B-E-B-U-I-A, tababui, an impetiginosa, it's a South American, tall South American hardwood, but it's used extensively for cancer, as Dr. Pete mentioned, they call it paudearco. And recently people are talking about a thing, an Asian herb. I think one of the names is black cumin, but it contains thymolquinone, and the quinones are, I think, the essential model of the protective, pro-oxidant, stabilizing chemical, and thymolquinone is considered to be a very powerful anti-inflammatory, and I suspect that... it'll turn out to be acting against excess nitric oxide. So it's a free radical quencher again, isn't it, the quinones? Are they... Yeah, that's just one of their many... They seem to activate the right kind of oxidation while quenching the bad kind. Okay, very good. All right, well, thank you very much. Yeah, thanks for your call. We have three callers on the lines here, so let's get them one after the other. Caller, you're on the end, where are you from? Me? Hi, you're on the air, where are you from? Hi, Arcata. Arcata, OK. Go ahead, what's your question? Thanks, I've been listening to your show for a good four years or so. A couple of quick review questions from the past that I've been wondering about for a long time. It was mentioned some time ago about a nutrient, I believe, that could help remediate or fix the earlobe crease. Does that ring any bell? What was the last thing you said? Earlobe crease. Earlobe crease, yeah. That's a thyroid deficiency, isn't it? Yeah, I think it is mainly a thyroid deficiency. Okay, and did I hear at the time a simple recommendation for correction of that? Was there a nutrient or is that a much more complex matter to address? I think the main thing causing hypothyroidism in so many people... is an excess of the polyunsaturated fatty acids because they're able to block the production of thyroid, its transport and its action. So they're very capable of antagonizing thyroid function. So to avoid all the nuts and seeds that contain liquid oils in them, so nuts and seeds are principally the kind of... polyunsaturated sources, and obviously there are other polyunsaturates yet commonly available in food that you should definitely avoid. So any of the liquid oils, obviously. What about, like, coconut oil? Coconut oil is saturated, so that's good. Dr. Pete's always recommending coconut oil and butter as being the two saturated sources of fat that should be the most consumed, and then to avoid all the liquids, liquid polyunsaturates, obviously fish oil being the worst. Dr. Pete's always recommending coconut oil and butter as being the two saturated sources of fat that should be the most consumed, and then to avoid all the liquids, liquid polyunsaturates, obviously fish oil being the worst. Okay. Whoa, like cod liver oil? That too, but I think, Dr. Pete, don't you say that the vitamin content in cod liver oil... Oh yeah, if you don't have any better source, cod liver oil is a great source of vitamin D. Yeah. It's better to get sunlight. Yeah. Okay. Can I ask one quick other question? Go ahead. There was something that came up about eating carrots and... I don't know what the term would be, but I want to feel like an astringent, or a cleaning, or a purifying, or helpful aspect of eating carrots. It was recommended that carrots be cut diagonally, and as a juicer and a cook, I guess, of my own food, I thought that was a bit peculiar, and I wondered if that could be elaborated upon. Now, I think Dr. Pete's always mentioned that grated carrots to increase the surface area. It's the mechanism that's preferred, and that's basically as a antiseptic, if you like, for the gut, removing excess estrogen and other waste products, and it's undigested, so it has a pretty good action in the gut without physically being changed. But, like, chewing it is not enough to enhance the surface area, like breaking it down? Well, not the same, because ultimately, when you grate the product in a grater, it doesn't have the same effect. Then you obviously have a big surface area then, and whatever you chew that up from, then it's going to increase it still. The juice does contain a lot of good things, but if you throw away the fiber, you're losing the most important thing for stimulating and cleaning the intestine. All right, well, thanks for your help. Thanks for your call. I've got a couple more callers here, so let's take the next caller. Where are you from? Hello, caller. You're on the air. Where are you from? What's on the air? Engineer, is he on the air or on? I guess not. Caller, three, two, one. Actually, the other caller hung up, too. Hello? Oh, there you go. Oh, I'm here. Yeah. Where are you from, caller? Excuse me, I'm from Southern Humboldt. OK, go ahead, what's your question? Well, I've got a couple of questions. First, did you say that L-arginine was bad? I've heard that that was supposed to be good for you, but I'm not sure what it's supposed to do. OK, Dr. P, arginine, you mentioned it a moment ago as being... Yeah, I've been noticing... And is there a difference between arginine and L-arginine? Yeah, the internet is just swamped with advertisements for ways to supplement... Arginine. L-arginine is just the natural amino acid. But if you get more than you need, it will increase your tendency to overproduce nitric oxide. And too much tryptophan happens to boost that, possibly by increasing serotonin. It's very important to keep your amino acids in a good balance, especially avoiding too much cysteine, tryptophan, methionine, and arginine. So you don't recommend taking an L-arginine supplement? No, I think it's very dangerous. Oh, okay. Now, did you say that Viagra is a... bad for you because it's made out of this nitric oxide stuff? It inhibits an enzyme that is supposed to inactivate a substance made by the production of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide starts a chain reaction, and Viagra keeps that chain reaction going. And in the process, it ends up......systemically increasing not only the effect of nitric oxide, but even in some situations the level of nitric oxide. So it probably is increasing the aging process basically in brain, heart, pancreas, everywhere you get an excess of nitric oxide. But they say having sex is good for you. If you can't have sex that's not so great either. I mean, is it a matter of moderation and not using it too often? Can it be okay if you use some of it? I mean, I don't know, I'm not a man. Well, it's one of the essential amino acids and so if you eat any good high quality protein, even potatoes, milk, cheese, you're going to get all of the arginine you need. Well, I'm talking about Viagra now. Oh, Viagra. Yeah, yeah. I mean, is that like totally bad or is it okay, you know, to have some of it? Because I'm saying if that improves the sexual function, you know, of an older man then sexual function is supposed to be a good thing. I mean, is there a balance there? Do you think it's totally bad? I think it would be better to work on the actual physiological problem, improving natural circulation. And, for example, restoring good thyroid function will often increase libido and potency. Now, Dr. P, I remember now some time ago you also mentioning pregnenolone and or progesterone as being very positive. I mean, in the past it always talked about progesterone potentially being slightly sedative and maybe... Decreasing, I think now you have said this, let me quote you, I think you said decreasing penis size, but it does not block the vasodilatory ability and so therefore actually does promote and enable erection and actually is a reasonably safe way of doing that in males. Well, what about testosterone? One thing at a time, huh? Aging men have decreased amounts of testosterone and progesterone. And increasing amounts of estrogen. And that increased estrogen and the decreased amounts of the protective steroids, I think, will increase the tendency to have erectile problems. And one of the really odd side effects of increased nitric oxide is that it decreases the ability to make testosterone. And at least in women it lowers the progesterone synthesis but those are synthesized very similarly so I think in both men and women nitric oxide is opposing and lowering those protective steroids while increasing estrogen. Well, what about Cialis? Is that just the same as Viagra? There are several products on the market that are supposed to help men with their erections. It's another version. Are they all the same? Yeah, pretty much. All right, well, thank you. Yeah, thanks for your call. Okay, Dr. P, I wanted to ask you some more questions about nitric oxide and or some of the articles I've seen about it promoting cancer. What are your thoughts on the cancer promoting effects of nitric oxide? I think it's one of the central factors in keeping cancer going and so turning it off. You don't necessarily think it's a promoter then? Oh yeah, it is a definite promoter of cancer growth and metastasis. Many publications are now... recognizing that breast cancer, prostate cancer and probably every cancer will probably eventually be discovered to respond badly to nitric oxide. The function of anything interfering with respiration, that's where the Warburg hypothesis......was that simply shifting away from oxygen as the energy source to being able to produce too much lactic acid even when there's oxygen because the cell has lost its mitochondrial function. Nitric oxide and carbon monoxide are both able to knock out the mitochondrial function and imitate... the cancer metabolism and there are several recent publications showing that the the Warburg cancer metabolism is created by nitric oxide excess and it's turned off by methylene blue simply by turning off the production of nitric oxide. Okay, okay, you're listening to ask your doctor on KMD, Garberville 91.1 FM. From now till the end of the show, 8 o'clock, we're pleased to have Dr. Raymond Peat joining us on the show. The number here is 923-3911. If you live outside the area, there's a toll-free number, which is 1-800-KM-UD-RAD. So Dr. Peat, again, I had a question on my mind during this week, that reading different research on different diseases and apart from that, knowing that some individuals are just inherently... more able to enjoy good health, seemingly against all odds. Have you any understanding of why some individuals, for example, are immune to HIV? Some individuals mount a successful response against hepatitis. Some individuals just have an innate immunity which enables them to overcome. what it is they come into contact with and they don't suffer from it. Do you think there's any connection between anything that you've read that you know about that you might be able to explain that from? There are new ideas about the whole functioning of the immune system that have been coming up in the last 20 years. Jamie Cunliffe and Polly Mattsing are the leading figures in that view of the immune system and I see it as imagining the body as an ecosystem which is simply so strong in some people at maintaining its own organization and stability that when something extraneous like a bacterium or a virus or a cancer cell happens to invade it the situation is so tightly organized in favor of maintaining the host organism that the invader can't find a place it's the niches are all occupied doing business with the the owner of the property no place to camp out like the strong man in the house no one can invade it yeah and I don't see it as as a killing of the invader but simply as using up all of the electron space productively so that keeping the door shut can't do strange things with it like turning sugar into lactic acid okay I I'd love to be able to get into the subject uh that I saw uh posted last thing today uh and that was uh to quote what I've said before many times and I think it's been repeated through generations that you are what you eat um I think I'd love to get into that subject with you next month I think we have another caller on here anyway but I'd love to get into that subject next month and uh just show that what we hear sometimes really does mean a lot more than we take for granted and that actually a lot of the uh things that are passed down from old generations to now really have their roots in fundamental science and that science now is at last being able to bear that out. So let me just get this other caller on the air and then we'll carry on. Actually two simple questions coming through me. Okay. First one is MSM and does it have an influence on male or female libido? Okay, Dr. Pete, methylene sulfmethon is it? I believe. I'm very cautious about it. The dimethyl sulfide. I think has its uses, but I'm not sure that there's anything really fully safe with MSM. And what about DCA or dichloroacetate for cancers? That happens to be very similar to methylene blue in the way it is essentially non-toxic in moderate amounts. People are now getting... as much as 10 or 12 grams of it per day intravenously and feeling great. But what it does is restore the productive oxidation of glucose, getting the electrons to go all the way from glucose to form carbon dioxide, pretty much what methylene blue is doing in different situations. The DCA is reversing... the cancer metabolism, or the so-called Warburg metabolism, the same way that methylene blue does. So I see it as a very important way of making up for the toxic effects of nitric oxide, endotoxin, free radical, fat oxidation, and so on. And you've spoken of... Antioxidants that are too strong, could you maybe give a spectrum of antioxidants and say is ALA too strong or what is the strongest antioxidant you would recommend? And THC in that spectrum as well? Vitamin E and ascorbic acid in the right proportion and the right situation are very safe and constructive. Lipoic, alpha lipoic acid is pretty safe, but I would be very cautious with the acetyl cysteine. I think large amounts of it can push the balance in the wrong direction. Dr. P, I had a question actually from a person who wrote to me who said that they were... unable to call in because they were outside the country and I think by the time I responded to them to ask them what country they were in it was probably already too late and I have come across this with other people anyway in our own practice and working with you I think I understand the situation but I'd like to hear it from you. It particularly was a woman who said that she had hypothyroidism symptoms including depression, weight gain, cold hands and feet, dry hair and skin. Her TSH her thyroid stimulating hormone was 1.6 which wasn't super high but I know you like it to be as close to zero as possible and her T3 was three and a half. She said she used to take armothyroid she was prescribed this by a doctor and it helped with symptoms for a few months and she said that when she when she tried to supplement with T3 or a T3 and T4 combination she developed anxiety and tachycardia. She said she's experimented with doses as small even as one milligram of T3 and she said it would send her. into a hypothyroid type state. I think that's kind of anxiety and palpitations. It may be an adrenaline thing but she said is there anything that she could do to better tolerate thyroid supplementation. She is currently taking zinc gluconate, vitamin D, vitamin K. She's using 4000 IU of vitamin D. She's using progesterone the second half of her menstrual cycle, aspirin, magnesium and calcium. She also eats liver weekly. What do you think might cause that in a person who previously might have used thyroid and then suddenly becomes what they call sensitive to it and unable to use it? Sometimes I think the product has changed. European forms of a thyroid supplement seem to be very unpredictable but if it's for sure the same product then usually a magnesium deficiency. Thank you. It can cause exactly those symptoms because the thyroid makes your cells able to use magnesium and so take it up but a big organ like your skeletal muscles and bones can take up so much from your blood that your brain and heart and such have trouble getting the magnesium they need to respond to the thyroid. And then you get an exaggerated stress and adrenaline reaction. And low cholesterol is another limiting factor. If you have very low cholesterol, you can't respond to increasing your thyroid because one of the basic functions of thyroid is to turn cholesterol into progesterone, pregnenolone and DHEA. Okay, so what kind of dose of magnesium would you think for that kind of person would be suitable? About a hundred milligrams at a time, as you take say one or two micrograms of cytomel or senomel, a hundred micrograms will be plenty for the first two or three hours. of responding to one or two micrograms. OK, and I looked earlier on as I was doing some searching around. I saw that the main principal sources it seemed of magnesium were nuts. Nuts and seeds. I think there were small amounts in soy. But I think principally what would you recommend as a good magnesium source? Of fruit juices and coffee, I think. If you want a really intense source, you can boil leaves like kale or beet greens or something just for two or three minutes and the green water that comes out quickly is very concentrated in magnesium and calcium. Okay, excellent. That's a very pretty safe supplement. Coffee and fruit juices are practical. something you can do every day okay all right but like i said uh perhaps uh perhaps next month if you're available i'd love to look into that new research well actually i think it was bought out in 19 late mid-1960s by that korean and sounded very interesting about the the third circulatory system in the body and actually that you are what you eat because there is a pretty intimate interaction between uh food products uh and our own dna they can be switched on and off and uh regulated that sounded pretty fascinating yeah there's a german group that has been doing this for about 15 years now looking at the uh dna from our foods getting incorporated into our own dna yeah and uh some biologists have been uh theorizing about this for the last hundred years uh carl lindegren was someone who reviewed the topic about 50 years ago uh showing good evidence that organisms all across the spectrum are sharing nucleic acid pollen for example when you ingest pollen that's blowing in the air uh some of the dna is probably actually getting incorporated into our chromosomes well listen i'd i i want to let people know how to find out more about you if they've not heard about you so thanks so much give uh giving your time uh for the show this evening dr pete okay thank you okay so for people who've listened to the show or maybe haven't heard of dr pete before he's got a wealth of information on his website it's freely accessible it's fully referenced scientific material uh it's not just made up it's fully referenced and there's plenty of articles uh both on pubmed and other medical research sites to validate what dr pete saying it's uh it's a science that uh provides the answers and it's not what we know in the mainstream media which is told to us by pharmaceutical companies and other vested interests but the scientists are interested in humanitarian causes are definitely finding lots of very novel ways of treating disease so don't just think that what you see on the television or read the newspapers is the only way that you can get yourself healthy. So Raymond Pete's website is www.raypeat.com. He's got lots of articles and for those of you who'd like to get in contact with us during regular business hours we can be reached on 1-888-WBM-ERB for further information. So until December's show thanks so much for joining. KMUD thanks Jessica Baker of Jade Dragon Acupuncture for her support of Redwood Community Radio. Practicing and teaching Chinese medicine, herbalism and aromatherapy, Jessica is available for conferences, workshops and private consultations. Located at 607 F Street in Arcata, Jade Dragon Acupuncture can be reached at 822-4300 or online at jadedragonacupuncture.com. Support for KMUD comes from...