 Door has solutions for all your security needs and open Monday through Saturday, 9am to 5pm. More information available at TSS707.com or 923-2363. Support for Redwood Community Radio comes from the Blue Star Gas. Located at Redwood Drive at Alder Point Road, Blue Star Gas provides propane sales and service throughout southern Humboldt, northern Mendocino and Trinity counties. Locally owned and independent since 1938. More information online at BlueStarGas.com Seven o'clock stay tuned big herb doctor show coming up. We're getting it all set up here in the studio It's gonna be great. Support for K-Mug comes from listeners like you and from Chautauqua Natural Foods Locally owned for over 25 years. They specialize in local and organic produce natural groceries nutritional supplements and body care products Chautauqua Natural Foods is open Monday through Saturday 9 to 7 Sunday 10 to 5 just off the town square in Garberville more information online at facebook.com backslash Chautauqua Naturals and support for KMA comes from the Humboldt County Department of Health and Human Services seeking foster families throughout the Humboldt County region. Do you have space in your life to make room for a child? Foster children in your community need homes and stipends are available. You can get more information on becoming a foster family by calling 707-499-3410. Alright, here we go. Stay tuned. Herb doctor coming up. Randonauts You You Well, very welcome to you all listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah Johannesson Murray. We both trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine and clients consult with us regarding their health issues and we recommend personalized advice in nutrition, supplements, herbs, diet and lifestyle. We can be reached toll free at 1-888-WBM-Herb or on www.westernbotanicalmedicine.com. So a little departure from, uh... The last few years, and definitely from Dr. Pete's altruistic and giving all of his time and his energy and his research, I'm very excited to show you that tonight we are hosting two filmmakers, Brad Abrahams and Jeremy Stewart, who are producing a documentary film called On the Back of a Tiger. They've interviewed eight maverick scientists, including Dr. Ray Peter, who weave an alternate story of life. From the molecular level to consciousness and perception, challenging the mainstream medical dogma with scientific research, illuminating radical new ways of understanding disease and its treatment. I welcome Brad and Jeremy to Ask Your Herb Doctor. Are you guys with us? Yes, we are. Okay. Thanks for the great intro. Sounds it up nicely. Excellent. Okay. Welcome Dr. Pete to the show. Yeah, hello. Oh, hi Dr. Pete. Seems like we have a threesome on the on the airwaves. Oh great. Okay, so um Basically then we've we've been very fortunate to interview you Dr. Pete for a number of years now and you frequently mention names during your discourses and they're usually eminent scientists and groundbreaking alternative researchers whose view of mainstream medicine is alternative to the dogma if not controversial Most people view the doctor. As an all-knowing entity, but many doctors fail to read the research that points to anything other than the dogma, which is perpetuated by Big Pharma up until the time that I just realized that Dr. Pete was going to be with us a couple of minutes ago, I had written a small outline for Brad and Jeremy apparently who've been exhaustively traveling Europe in the year 2014 to track down these eight principal scientists who they did manage to get one two and three day interviews with I think. So, I wanted to cover the timeline with which you started interviewing the scientists, starting with Dr. May Wan Ho, and give each of you, I don't quite know how we're going to work this with both of you on the show, I think one person will do one and the other will do another, or you can both interject and Dr. Ray Peat, you too, at the same time you can all cut in. I wanted to... Ask both of you to the Jeremy first like I always have done with dr. Pete if you would just give an outline of your professional and academic backgrounds perhaps starting with you Brad Sure. Well, my background and Jeremy's are quite similar so good cover both of us. We we both went to film school originally and And very soon after graduating entered the advertising and commercial production world where We were trapped for many years, pining away, trying to figure out a way to work on projects that were more meaningful to us and to other people. And you just can't do that with a full-time job. It takes up so much of your energy creatively and physically that we ended up quitting, still working freelance for funds. But spending more and more of our time now working on projects like these and we've focused Specifically on on this project now for the last year or so. Yeah. Have you had any background reasons for pursuing this kind of health topic medical Establishment approach to disease is anything pertinent and need to review that is kind of spurred this or Yeah, you can go ahead Jeremy We both I think are you know sort of Sensitive fragile people in that way like as far as always being You know more aware of What we eat and sensitive to the environment, you know, some people are maybe more hypothyroid than others as as Ray might say And so I think we both had similar interests that's how that's how we became friends in the first place while working together seeing that Reading about I think On world's healthiest foods was when we first had our our first conversation and realized that we had a lot in common But seeing health problems and in friends and family who Couldn't find solutions. I think that that's always been a Background and having an interest in science. Yeah, it was originally for myself just things like really bad digestion allergies fatigue and a lot of it i think came with you know overworking and and just um the confines of of the modern world but more recently it's it's been seeing deteriorating health of family and friends and um in particular my father who's been in the last couple years had been diagnosed with alzheimer's and i was already skeptical of the establishment medical establishment but just seeing um the bad science and and you know really suspect motives particularly with this disease um really spurred a sense of urgency you know creating a project like this okay and um jeremy and brad i was wondering how did you first find out about dr pete because i know you wanted this film and initially you were thinking this film was going to be focused solely on dr ray p how did you first hear about dr p Well, I was introduced to him by Brad. Brad, you found him through Danny Roddy? Yeah, originally Danny Roddy. I had been on the roller coaster of diets and in need of recovery and had found Danny's site that had mentioned Dr. Pete and just found it so fascinating, someone looking at health and nutrition, starting at the molecular level and actually really understanding that, having such a solid grasp of the biochemistry. It took a long time. The work is dense and hard to understand for someone without a scientific background. So it took a long time. It took actually a couple of years of reading and listening and talking with Jeremy and others to really have a grasp on what was going on. The unique view and also, you know, self-experimentation with diet and certain lifestyle things that really ended up having quite a large impact, I think, in both of our healths. Definitely. And it was a while, you know, we were reading Ray's work for quite a long time before we talked about the idea of doing a documentary. I think it coincided. And somewhat inspired doing something, getting into a project that was more meaningful and outside of the commercial world that we'd been in for so long. Wow, that's excellent. Well, all this talk about Dr. Ray Pete, I think we need to ask Dr. Ray Pete what your professional and academic background is, if there's listeners tonight that have not heard our show in previous months. I was studying art and literature as an undergraduate. And I did my master's thesis mostly on William Blake and all that time I was interested in life in general and saw biology as a way to get some concrete facts that would confirm alternative views because I saw in the humanities dogma and stuff. political opinions influencing what was teachable in the universities and I thought that real science might have relevance to the humanities and as soon as I enrolled at the University of Oregon to work on a PhD in biology after taking a few years out in between my master's I quickly realized that biology was exactly as unscientific as linguistics, philosophy, literature and so on. Ideology was right at the center of nerve biology. And so I wrote to Gilbert Ling and told him what my professors......were teaching that he and others had shown to be profoundly wrong 20 years previously. And he answered, he said, you just don't understand what science is. Science is all about prestige and money. So what year was that that you wrote to Gilbert? 1968, I think, in the fall when I started university. Just after... a few more months working with the nerve biology brain people, I found that the reproductive biologist was actually a scientist who, when I observed things that were counter to the dogma, he said, is it repeatable? Then go ahead. Great, so he had an open mind to science. Yeah, and the nerve biologist said that. He wouldn't even look at the experiments that I was doing. All of my experiments showed something contrary to the nerve dogma, and my professor would just turn instantly, so he didn't have to see what the instruments were showing. That is the thrust of... And I definitely haven't spoken to you, Dr Peake, since......early on the week, before we even invited Brad and Jeremy to the show, but that's exactly the thrust of where tonight's show's going. So the scientists that we mentioned earlier... Sorry, we haven't mentioned the scientists yet, but I was saying earlier that you have, in the course of the last several years, whenever we do radio shows, you'll always throw out these eminent scientists' names, like Gerald Pollack, May Wan Ho, Gilbert Ling, etc. And Jeremy and Brad took it upon themselves to go take a list of these people and go see if they could track them down and film them. I know, I want to know how that came about when Jeremy and Brad were talking to you, Ray. Well, one minute, I just wanted to say that at this point in time in pre-production, the editing stage, they have produced a fantastic couple of minutes movie. Clip showing all the different people that they've interviewed, and these people are all on the cutting edge, they're all PhD, they're professors, they're research scientists, they're all very respectable people who produced works in published journals, etc. And they are directly refuting some long-held tenets and dogma of science that most people just get faced with by their doctors because the doctors are not reading research. So the whole thrust of tonight's show is not only to Bring out these scientists and their various different aspects of what they're looking at in science but to let people know that they can find out more about this movie that's being created by going to www.perceivethinkact so perceive think act is the main link dot com dot com of course you can just put that perceive think act in a google search term and google search bar it'll take you straight to their website and you'll be able to see what they're the work that they're doing So, yeah, the main thing is I wanted to go through the different scientists that Dr. Peaks mentioned in the past that Jeremy and Brad went to see on different continents and get a feeling for the kind of science that they've put together in, I don't know how many hours. How many hours do you think you took altogether and how many hours do you think the DVD will be? Oh, well, in terms of raw footage so far, we've shot hundreds of hours, but the final project will be, you know, a feature film length, but perhaps we're going to explore maybe shorter series that could cover more ground as well. In depth, okay, cool. Okay, so Dr. Pete, how did you come up with the idea for Brad and Jeremy or Brad and Jeremy, how did you come up with it to interview these other scientists? Well, it was the original phone conversation we had with with Dr. Pete, talking about this idea. And he mentioned or had asked, had we thought about talking to Harold Hillman, and we had heard of Harold Hillman, but hadn't really looked into him. And he mentioned, you know, a couple other names, Meywon Ho, and we started, you know, diving deeper into their work and realizing there's a much larger story to tell here and that really sparked this quest to then sort of check off all of the people whose what seem like disparate theories Ray has connected the dots and woven together into a what we think is a fairly cohesive new model for the workings of life. Yeah that's why I keep telling Dr. Pete we need to write a book that's called the... Pete manual instead of the Merc manual, you know, it's a Pete manual Who knows? Okay. So let's start let's start with Dr. May Wan Ho just because you have uh, firsthand Uh knowledge of her and you've met her and you know Maybe you can just give an outline of May Wan Ho's background her philosophy and um, you know her character She's covered a lot of different topics I think probably What she's known for being most controversial on is GMOs but mainly what we talked to her about is her study of basically quantum biology and the crystalline structure of organisms and she did a number of experiments using a type of microscope that's I think generally used in geology and it basically uses polarized light and allows you to look at generally like the structure of crystals. And rocks. But she found that the small organisms had the same sort of crystalline structure in a, you know, liquid form. And I think that was that was kind of the inspiring paradigm shifting thought to her. Okay. And it fits in with things like, you know, structured water and thinking about the organism in a way that it's in the mechanistic views of science and various sorts of chemical biology, is totally counter to that type of thinking. Okay. So she wrote the book Rainbow and the Worm, which is kind of all about that. Rainbow in the... It's called The Rainbow and the Worm. And the Worm. Oh, and the Worm. Okay. Got it. Okay. And that also, those findings to her that connected with... Criticisms against neo-Darwinism as well. If the organism is not fundamentally so mechanistic and much more fluidic and subtle, then it would support, lay support to the theories more, you know, in line with Sidney Fox and others. Dr. Pete, given that you are on the show, let's just quickly ask you of a rundown for, wait, May 1. If you like, just because you've always, you're the one that's been mentioning her in the first instance. What springs to your mind? That image of the worm really is one of the most important things that the people should start thinking about. The quantum biology, I think Albert Schweitzer, Albert St. Georgie actually was the one that motivated people to start going in the direction of electronic biology and a coherent view of the cell. May Wan Ho is, to a great degree, an extension of some of Albert St. George's ideas. Moving on to Harold Hillman, I think he's the next person. Yeah, first of all, when did you first interview May Wan Ho? What date are we looking at now? Well, we actually started with Harold Hillman. Oh, you did, did you? I'm sorry. Yes, but only a few days before May Wan Ho, and it was around the 15th of April of last year. Okay. Yeah. So you went to England? Yes. Yeah, we were planning our first trip. We wanted to knock several interviews out at once, and there were several people in England. So there was Harold Hillman and Maiwana Ho was our first interview, and then two days later we went to see Maiwana. So tell me a little bit about Harold Hillman and his background and what he was like and what he's contributed to the documentary. Well, the crux of his work is his criticisms of traditional microscopy as well as the use of the electron microscope, in that most of the structures we see... when we're looking through them are artifacts and this is because of the processing that the what was once living material has to go through and and you know it would make your head spin hearing him list all of the things that you know the dehydration dying smashing and what you're left with is something that that bears almost no resemblance to an actual living cell so then how can you learn about the living cell when what you're looking at is basically artifacts and is he is he saying that this is still happening in mainstream biology this is still the norm oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yes he made a film go ahead sorry on youtube there's a old films of his that you can watch and it's still it's pretty pertinent today it's really simple which is what i think makes his criticisms so inflammatory is he just shows the side by side of it cell being prepared for microscope slide and you've got the living cell on one side looking like a transparent blob and then after it goes through all of the steps of being you know washed in alcohol and various other compounds it's like about the third the size and all squashed and squiggly looking does he do anything with um live um blood microscopy uh he not himself personally but he you know he did um we asked him about the techniques currently in use that um do let you look at or or at least more accurate than light microscopy um or the the electron microscope and and going back to uh what dr pete had experienced when he was a student you know the his uh professor not even wanting to look at what he was doing similar with with uh dr hillman his his work was so difficult to criticize that that people would just leave the room when he would come in at scientific conferences they would literally turn around and run away because they just didn't want to hear him speak yeah they'd rather keep their paycheck coming in and actually look at what science might be showing them yes unfortunately in the uh in the medical world and all the scientific world the ego i think gets in the way so much that um people don't even see the truth when it's right in front of them but yeah at the same time there are people that have very alternative ways of looking at things like dr pete and the people that you've seen so this again is the part point of your documentary is to uh illustrate i think from that first instance you talked about harold being the first person you uh you saw that's pretty uh pretty interesting because he's the person who's you're saying is refuting a lot of what microscopy is revealing yeah exactly where it all stems from yeah rotten foundations basically okay there was a famous Swedish electron microscopy expert named Fritjof Sjostrand who did a lot of very clear explanation using different fixatives showing how profound the artifacts are in the standard preparations and he was a mainstream researcher but the mainstream simply overlooked his work on the artifacts okay well let's move on to Dr. Gerald Pollack a lot of people that listen to the show may well have mentioned sorry may well have heard his name mentioned in the past and may well know him from his structured water, well he's kind of water, he's called the water water wizard I think they call him. Go ahead, either one of you want to start and tell us a little bit about Gerald Pollack and what you what you gained from his interview Well, yeah, he's really known Probably more widely than anyone else that we've interviewed so far as far as having he's got mainstream talks He's done a TED talk And his focus today is really on what they generally call structured water another phase that you know it's one of those topics I think it he's really unpopular in his department because he has chosen to study something that seems like obviously it's already been figured out but they do some fairly simple experiments to show that there are more unusual electrically based forms of water and they create they call it easy water the exclusion zone when you get the water building up on a surface and it it purifies itself basically everything becomes excluded from it and that seems to be the exact kind of water how water is structured inside cells so it has all sorts of implications for further understanding biology in and he found that One of the substances that that seems to create easy water or structured water with the most affinity is aspirin Which we found yeah, very interesting in that it has such a such broad effects in the body and and if it's connected to To that attribute of it Yeah, the stabilizing effect of water Okay, dr. P. I know you've always been a proponent of that aspirin For quite a wide range of different conditions inflammatory generally, but Did do you have any? Anything to say on Gerald Pollack? Oh Everything he's been doing in recent years is just extremely interesting he has Developed some theories on how light energy infrared is used in In a building structure in water And there's a young German named Andre Sommer, S-O-M-M-E-R, who is working with red light structuring water. Very similar and very concrete demonstration of what, on a bigger scale, Patterson, Gerald is working on. So is that. Some of the reason why red light is so anti-inflammatory because of its effects on the water of the cell. Um, yeah, I think that's part of it. Well, it's a good time of year to get your red light folks. It's nice and sunny here in California. It was also just really heartening to see Gerald's lab, you know, it's easy to feel gloomy when pondering all the ills in our medical and scientific establishments, but Gerald's lab is full of young and excited, inspired scientists that are working on all sorts of interesting endeavors that, you know, it just, it made us hopeful for the next generation. Yeah, one of his students, who I think is sort of the top guy under him now, originally did a project trying to disprove him. And I think he spent, you know, a year. And then he proved to himself, basically, that that Gerald was doing good science and joined his side. Excellent. Okay, so from the first three that we mentioned, May Onehoe, Harold Hillman and Gerald Pollock, they're all doctors, but didn't say that to begin with. So starting with May Onehoe, then looking at polarized light and quantum biology, criticizing the neo-Darwinism that's kind of so prevalent in the scientific community. And then Harold Hillman, the microscopist, looking... at microscopy as... or what's being done in microscopy as being poor science and actually very damaging, if you like, to the subject that's being visualised, and how that can impact various experiments. And then also then Gerald Pollack and structured water. So I know we've got several other scientists that I'd like you to cover that you've been with, but first of all, just let me let people know who are listening. This is Ask Your Web Doctor on KME-D, Garbleville, 91.1 FM and... We're interviewing Jeremy and Brad, and let me just get this right. It is Jeremy Stewart and Brad Abrahams. Yes. And Dr. P is with us, although I thought Dr. P actually was going to have the evening off. We're glad that he's here. Yeah, we're very glad too. We're very glad. So we definitely appreciate that. But these two gentlemen are documentary filmmakers and they have done the seemingly impossible and interviewed. Eight of these scientists that Dr. Pete has been talking about for many years now when he brings out his various different anecdotes as he always does and have producing a fantastic documentary film kind of unifying all of the theories I think in some ways that Dr. Pete is able to understand that all these people working in their individual fields are contributing all the same sort of unifying knowledge to an approach in a framework to approaching disease that is so radical and hopefully it's about time for mainstream science to wake up and some people to see what's going on. We've always said, you know, for those who have ears, listen, let them hear. So they can be reached at www.perceivethinkact.com. So go ahead and check them out on the web and see the work they're doing. It's really quite special. So let's move on then Brad and Jeremy to Dr. Gilbert Ling. Tell us a little bit about this fellow and I think actually for some ways this next couple of people seem to be getting on in their years they've been doing it for a long time so let's talk about Gilbert Ling. Well Gilbert I think now is 96 I believe and when we saw him he was in shockingly good health living alone in a mansion basically running up and down the stairs doing everything for himself. The only issue really being his hearing. But recently he he had a health complication and is now not able to to live on his own unfortunately yeah but he seems to be getting back to his old self which is good to hear but it's really difficult to sum up Gilbert's you know past and achievements but he's most known for disproving the sodium pump. Hypothesis which is you know at the root of all basically thought on physiology and the role of the cell membrane in in that sodium pump hypothesis and and his hypothesis called the associating induction hypothesis it it basically details a totally different totally unconventional model of how the cell works. only on physics and chemistry right actual science yeah that's what's so uh forward thinking about it it's scientific and reproducible you're saying it's something that's uh yeah he's done you know possibly thousands of of experiments showing the work and proving it uh that have all but been ignored and they won't even if he submits a paper to even on an unrelated subject to any journal they reject it just saying you because yeah they don't even read it um they just sent him a rejection notice because of his name well now dr p i know that um when we've spoken to you in the past um and i again unfortunately went through an education where it was very science-based and it was the same kind of erroneous not really science-based it pretended to be science-based but really it was just medical dogma we still had sodium pumps and potassium pumps and all that kind of stuff moving allowing things to be transported across the cell and i know dr pete that you've um you're very anti the so the membrane pump idea saying that it's actually cells are very fluid and elastic and they flow and they move and they make space between the cells for things to enter and exit and actually this is a much better and holistic approach to the physiology of the cell Yeah, wasn't the cell membrane theory just brought about by Big Pharma so they could try to explain how their drugs are working? Well, sort of, I think it really relates to neo-Darwinism and the genetic idea that they want to get away from the idea that life is somehow stable. And so it's a... more like a machine which has to run to keep itself in a given state. But Gilbert Ling showed that even if you turn off the energy supply, the cell is stable for many hours. The sodium keeps going in and going out, but the cell retains the life-like imbalance between sodium and potassium and all of the... life-like properties don't require energy, they simply require the structure of the water and the whole living system. And there are just apparently an infinite number of ways of looking at that that confirm Gilbert Ling's view, but the absurd... the need to see things in this......mechanical way makes people overlook the facts and believe absurd things. In an electron microscope course that I took, I decided to try different fixatives. I had read Shostrins, some of his publications, and simply by using a different fixative, my cells were nothing but membranes. Membranes all the way through, so I looked at the origin of how they got the first membrane and in an old medical book, 19th century ideas, I saw that doctors treated ulcers and burns with osmic acid, osmic tetroxide, to create what they called the false membrane. And that was a standard medical term, so it was in the consciousness of the people who were working on cells. And the first preparations for electron microscopy of cells showed no membranes at all. But they believed that there had to be membranes. And apparently someone recalled that old medical concept of creating a false membrane to seal up a wound. And they applied osmic acid to living cells and created, in fact, a membrane which was about ten times thicker than they eventually decided they needed. So they refined the technique. Now they have approximately the right thickness of membrane. And just how they've never been able to find one of their hundreds of pumps that they've... invented. And anytime there's a new thing that goes in and out of the cell, they have to create a new pump, add a new pump to the list? If you wash all of the ions out of hair and dip hair in the serum, it picks up the proper ions and excludes sodium. So apparently dead hair has all of the necessary pumps. The working pumps. Okay, well, let's go ahead. I was gonna say one more thing about Gilbert Lange that I think he's not more well-known because You know, he's got an impressive academic career. He's really intelligent and he speaks at such a high level That it's pretty difficult to follow along sometimes what he's saying unless you have like degrees in biochemistry And and so reading his books is really challenging, especially for a layman Even for a scientist Yeah. Well that's why we appreciate Dr. Ray Pete so much. Exactly, exactly, yeah. Because you're able to put all these pieces together and make a coherent picture that we can understand. So let's go on to, let's see here, Dr. Michael Persinger. He was one that was not initially on our list but someone that Brad and I both had mutual interest in prior to ever, I think, even hearing about Ray. But we were really surprised at how well he ended up fitting in in the interview phase. And I guess he is listed as studying parapsychology. But basically he's done a huge amount of work on the effects of fields on life, on consciousness. And he's most well known for what's now a very old experiment. If you just search for the God Helmet on YouTube, you'll see videos on that experiment showing electromagnetic stimulation of the right hemisphere inducing a sensed presence in quite a few people. Okay, as if they perceive something, they perceive a person or... Yeah, and it's like a closed eye experience in a sealed room wearing a scooter helmet and... For, you know, is it an experience that's induced in people who seem to be sensitive to it and then totally filtered by their cultural eye? Like if someone was highly religious, they might have some kind of God experience. Okay. And so that's kind of, I think, what most people know him from. But he's done decades of other more advanced work since then. But he has lots to say about operating in the system. Doing controversial study and proposing radical ideas and doing good science and showing the effects. Basically I think it's really controversial to do anything with fields. And he's done a lot of work showing how sensitive life is to electromagnetic fields. How many, I just have to ask a question here at this point, how many of these people that you've interviewed up to this person, Dr. Michael Persinger, are marginalized? All of them. All of them, really? Yeah. I'd say the one who's least marginalized is Gerald Pollock, but even in his case, he's often... He's treading a fine line, huh? Well, at risk of his... I mean, he's had his funding taken away from him. And is always at risk of that, as well as constant attacks from other professors that feel threatened. Michael Persinger has seemed to have carved out a niche for himself in the bitter north of Canada, at a small university, and I think that allows him to do what he wants to do, and have the facilities that he needs to do it. He doesn't have the same introspection, huh? Okay. No, it's because he's in Canada. Well, let's move on, let's move on to the next person on this, probably one of my, I'm probably more, I'm as drawn to this person as I am to Dr. Harold Hillman, just because Dr. Harold Hillman's British, but Dr. Fred Kummerow, he's a hundred years old now, isn't he? And he looks, he looks so good for his age, folks. If people that are listening here, Dr. Fred Kummerow, K-U-M-M-E-R-O-W, he's a hundred years old. And I'm sure Dr. Pete will have something to say about him as well as both of you, Brad and Jeremy, but he was very into demonizing polyunsaturates a long time ago, and his skin looks so good. You've met him in person, what's he like? He looks even better than you'd imagine. He has no age spots or the lipofuscin anywhere, and his hair, well, you know, gray. Is he has a full head of hair. It's it's you know, nice and soft. Um, so nice full set of teeth. Did you touch his hair? No, but it looks very soft And he basically had you know, uh for his his adult life. Um avoided uh any added Polyunsaturated fats in his diet that I think is tell us all about him Uh, well, he he's most recently known for for success in his 60 year long tireless crusade against trans fats, which is something that right everyone sort of Knows now that that is bad for their health But what is not reported is is he basically says very similar things about the polyunsaturated fats And when we told him since he's quite old and he's not really connected into the modern, you know health world when we told him that that Fish oil is sold as supplements and people drink flax oil He he literally like physically recoiled Knowing the harm that it can do to health and and and it has you know caused some people to to die really die young And and yeah that it actually horrified him that that people are that it's a billion dollar Industry that that all it's doing is is harming your health. Mm-hmm Yeah, it's pretty sad isn't it? Um, go ahead. Is there anything else you want to say about Dr. Fred Kuhn wrote I think having met him and then maybe I'll ask dr. Pete what he has to think about him No, he's just you know, it's it's inspiring to see you know, he's getting older and Recently in a wheelchair because of a swimming related accident at 97 So, you know, it's it's age is starting to take its toll at a hundred for him but he's still doing active research at the lab and working on some novel compounds and related to Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases that have to do with with oxidization of the polyunsaturated fat. I just want to let our listeners know that if you visit this website www.perceivedthinkact.com you can see a short clip, a short video clip of all of these doctors we're talking about this evening. I don't know if that's been mentioned but... Okay, and just for some context on the website. Yeah, please do go ahead perceive think act comm is our it's just like the journal of our of our It's our journey making the film. So it's the production journal and in chronological order It has a post for each of our shoots with every subject we've had and pictures and videos from from the shoots And I think also important to note that We're not finished shooting we've only really shot about you know 30 to 40 percent of the material There's a lot. Yeah, there's a lot of people that we still want to interview like how are you going to get them all into a one and a half hour dvd or It's going to be a compendium, isn't it the magic of good editing yeah Yeah, i'm not too sure how you're going to cut enough out to get it all into a small movie without cutting out some very Good information, but anyway i'll leave that to you guys you guys are the film pros, so uh i'll leave that to you but let's let's talk a little bit more then uh got a couple more subjects and then we can uh i actually yes i wanted to ask dr pete dr pete i don't want you just to be on the sidelines i know you're probably fairly happy but hopefully uh not not too uh not too uh tired what do you uh what do you have to say about dr michael persinger from your your experience and or your uh your work where where has he led you if anywhere in his journey well uh my interest in fields i went way back my brother was a radio ham and had a lot of electronic equipment that i from i guess the age of nine or so i had the opportunity to play with and and so the uh electrical properties of all of my acquaintances seeing how aging affected the conductivity and so on kept me uh constantly aware of the electrical magnetic properties of organisms and uh in 1968 I went to Russia largely to talk to a man working in what he called magnetobiology okay as opposed to bio magnetics he concentrated on the effects of fields on organisms rather than the fields produced by the organisms and one of my very first experiments at the university after I got back was with a strong magnet that my brother made for me and looking at its effect on a crab nerve and I could see that just the presence of a strong magnetic field apparently affected I interpreted it as affecting the structure of the water the latent period there was a delay between stimulation and reaction in the presence of a magnetic field I also I interpreted it as affecting the structure of the water paid attention to the fields that I produced electrical fields that would some of the things like a millivolt meter I couldn't operate because my field would from about a foot away they would go off scale so my lab partner had to handle the knobs on those things So it's all very interesting actually practical experimentation showing that fields do not just subtly but grossly affect nerve impulses and or electric activity in the body and that's been a lot of the basis for your outcry against radiation and x-rays and all the other visualization techniques that are used in medicine as being very harmful Very subtle fields have a very big effect Organisms, okay. What about dumpster to take to take too long with that one? But how about dr. Fred Kumaro and his his background in trans fat? Trying to keep trying to ban trans fats the Trans fats normally occur in butter as an intermediate stage and the The conjugated linoleic acid is the next step in shifting the unsaturation and the very beneficial effects of conjugated linoleic acid I think are because they block some of the toxic effects of the normal linoleic acid and other polyunsaturated fats. So, even though cow's milk and butter contain some chance... fats, they also contain the beneficial next step to the conjugated form of unsaturated fat. Okay. Yeah, and Dr. Kumaro's criticism is more about the artificially created trans fats. Yeah. Rather than the naturally growing in dairy another one. He's got nothing against butter. Yeah, he likes butter. Yeah. It's all about the wholesale production then of trans fats and pumping those into the food chain. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Well, we've got 10 minutes left here and time goes so quickly unfortunately, but just want to let people that are listening know this is Ask Your Herb Doctor KMUD 91.1 FM. We've interviewed Dr. Amenp, thankfully, for quite a while and he's spoken on many different subjects and he's mentioned many different eminent scientists in that time and that. Fortunately the step has been made where these two gentlemen filmmakers that we're interviewing now have actually gone and interviewed these eight scientists and they're actually talking about interviewing quite a few more. But they are in the process of producing a documentary and they do have a very good clip, a taste of things to come. If only people will go there and see what's going on. Their website is www.perceivethinkact.com The name of the documentary that's in progress is On the Back of a Tiger. Okay, so let's just go on to Danny Roddy and his background. He's probably the only non-doctor so far, isn't he? So far, yeah. There's sort of two sides to the film, and we've focused so far on the scientists, but the other piece is what we've been calling the health seekers, people who have used this information to empower themselves and take their health into their own hands. And he's someone who's had his own health journey, and now he's, I guess you could call him a health blogger. His main focus is on hair loss, specifically. But he's, I think, probably read almost anything that is available that Ray has written, ever. Okay. And he's got no formal academic background, but he's learned an incredible amount on his own. And I think really... had a huge journey learning to understand his own sort of metabolism and stress and... And he's applied this to himself and this has been something kind of groundbreaking Gestalt's moment where he's... Wow! Exactly, yeah. He's been on, I think, the roller coaster that a lot of us can relate to with trying to solve your own health problems and... thankfully has has come out on top with a... and now able to um connect with people i think that's why he connects so well with people is is he's been where a lot of people are now um and has the gift of um taking those those very complex scientific theories and and translating them so so anyone can understand them yeah good i mean that's always been the challenge isn't it science is sometimes so uh so chewy it's a lot to get your teeth into sometimes and sometimes it's the language is almost a different language and and therefore it needs a translation to put it into a context of everyday language so people can truly understand it that's what we try and do with dr pete because sometimes he's uh he's very scientific sometimes and other times you know doesn't sound quite so difficult to understand but it depends who he's talking to sometimes when it was just you and dr pete on the radio show you guys got a little carried away in science because you're talking to each other anyway anyway so my interference there but okay so you actually went and interviewed dr pete now dr pete he's probably the unwitting star of the show but um yeah you interviewed dr pete here and um obviously you got to share with him and he got to share with you and um what i can gather is that again i think he's um kind of unifying the theories of all these different scientists and applying it to um health and the perspective of health and kind of meeting the challenges of the way health and medicine is working or not working um in this day and age with people and how dogma is just so entrenched as is the ego i think in the uh science community that it fails to see sometimes the obvious and doesn't allow um that ego to fall to one side to let the facts come through and and then support them by being a little bit out on the edge of the field as it were so you interviewed dr pete and unfortunately i know we've only got five minutes left but you can talk briefly about dr pete but let us let us have a little bit of time just to re-remind people where they can find out more about you because you've got a great film that you put in together so dr pete very briefly you got a couple of minutes i think So, well, one of the, you know, the thing about the working scientists and people who have spent their life in science is they focus on a little tiny area, and they're not usually fully aware of the larger context that they may be helping to expand. And so I think Ray's work, it kind of puts all of these people into a paradigm that all make sense together into a much more holistic view. And really, what is the worth of all of this scientific inquiry if you can't apply it practically to people's health and nutrition? And I think that's where nearly everyone we've interviewed somewhat misses the mark in that they don't think about it that way. They don't think, well, how does this apply to me? They're looking down the microscope. Exactly. Yeah, and that's where one of the many realms where Dr. Pete's... work resonates with with us and so many other people. And I also think that Dr. Pete helps people take their health into their own hands and he encourages them and gets them to start looking at what do you feel like after you eat that food or what do you feel like after you do that and that is so important because we can we are the ones that know ourselves the best and a doctor teaching a patient to do that is... very, very contrary to the authoritarian medical system we have today. And it's funny, it's kind of surreal being on your show tonight because your show has... it's one of the few resources to hear Dr. Pete talk on so many different subjects. And Brad and I both have spent so much time listening to your recorded shows as research for the film. So, thanks for your interest. Yeah, we're finally on the other side. I didn't even know this until about three days ago, folks. Anyway, I'd heard about Brad and Jeremy, oh, I think late 2013, and they said what they were going to do, and I was like, okay, great, sounds like a great idea. And, you know, we went backwards and forwards with a few emails, but we never got to actually meet or talk. And then the next thing was, they've done it. Well, I take my hat off to you and I hope and I know that you probably really enjoyed it and I'm I think you're going to Certainly exceed most people's expectations Uh, and I really wish both of you the very best, uh in your work and also in uh, Getting the funding that is uh can be necessary here to put this together Yeah, um the first, you know The very first post if you go to our site proceedthinkact.com has a link to the the kickstarter campaign Where you can donate or share um around with with friends and family. I know it's doing pretty good so that's a good good good sign. And um lastly Dr. P could you can you comment on the the film that Jeremy and Brad are producing? In about a minute. Well the bits that I've seen it's very much fun to watch those people um I had seen I spoke briefly to Gilbert Ling in 1971. But it's good to see the newer stuff about him and the others. Well if it wasn't if it wasn't for people like you Dr. P and all the people that Jeremy and Brad have actually gone and seen and videoed and gotten real live footage of um It wouldn't be able to reach people and people wouldn't get to know about such alternatives So in keeping alternatives alive, so thank all of the three of you for um being here and you dr Pete if I didn't even know you're going to be on the air, but uh, thanks so much Thank you for all your time. Okay, so thanks. Thank you everyone. You're very welcome. Appreciate it. Okay, so Until the third friday of uh next month. Uh, my name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah Johansson-Murray and we can be reached uh, 1-888-WBM-ERB uh, Monday through Friday or any time in fact people just want to uh, contact us for uh, whatever it is uh, so our website also is uh, www.westernbotanicalmedicine.com and uh, don't forget, Perceive, Think, Act, so that's the best way you want to go, www.perceivethinkact, it's really very interesting, you should see it. and Dr. Raymond Peet's um, website is www.raymondpeet.com