 This free program is paid for by the listeners of Redwood Community Radio. If you're not already a member, please think of joining us. Thank you. ["Pomp and Circumstance"] ["Pomp and Circumstance"] ["Pomp and Circumstance"] ["Pomp and Circumstance"] Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah Johansson-Murray. For those of you who perhaps have never listened to our shows, which run every third Friday of the month from 7 to 8 p.m., we're both licensed medical herbalists who trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. We run a clinic in Garberville where we consult with clients about a wide range of conditions. And we manufacture all our own certified organic herbal extracts which are either grown on our CCUF certified herb farm or which are sourced from other USA certified organic supplies. So you're listening to Ask Europe Doctor on KMUG Garberville 91.1 FM and from 7.15 today until the end of the show at eight o'clock you're invited to call in with any questions either related or unrelated to this month's last minute topic as it were of the unfolding facts in... Japan. I think first and foremost we want to extend our heartfelt sincere wishes for the people of Japan that their country could recover and the people there can find relief from a lack of food and shelter and protection and help from all the sources possible to help them cope with this disaster. So last Friday there was a 8.9 or 9.0 earthquake which resulted in a tsunami and the tsunami had the unfortunate effect of causing a fairly catastrophic breakdown in the cooling system of Fukushima nuclear power plant. We're going to be joined in a moment here by Dr. Raymond Peets who's an expert physiologist, chemist, research scientist and we're going to be hearing from Dr. Raymond Peets about some helpful things to do to counter any potential radioactive spread to this country. It was probably earlier in the week that I first started finding some internet-based evidence to show that the spread of radiation from the steam leaked from the plant, and subsequently the explosions, the hydrogen explosions on the actual plant. Buildings, not the containment vessel for the reactor, but the buildings that housed all of the reactor and all the machinery, that that steam was laden with things like iodine, 1,3,1, and cesium isotopes and that these had been released in the steam cloud as the engineers desperately tried to lower the pressure by allowing the steam from the reactor to leave so it didn't cause any further breakdown of the containment vessel which would certainly result in......fairly widespread and very damaging radioactive release and one of the reactors number three, the mix oxide fuel reactor that contained the plutonium, 6% plutonium and 94% uranium, that would lead to a much more serious environmental damage if that was released. Okay, so we started coming out on Wednesday I think it was, I first started seeing some spreading clouds as it were in colour. Showing potential spread to the east coast and then the CTBTO from Vienna released information and it became widespread public knowledge. It was no longer something that was on the fringes but fairly widespread public knowledge and today, that was on Thursday and today on Friday, quite a few government agencies are also admitting this. So, on Wednesday or Tuesday of last week they started saying that the radioactive components would be in......the upper atmosphere spread by the jet stream moving east and due to hit the Aleutian Islands on Thursday and then be on the west coast of America with spread potentially from Oregon down to California. So, yesterday I read the CTBTO report online and indeed this cloud was coming fairly close and was expected to make landfall by Friday. Funnily enough today in Sacramento, now the CTBTO is the centre of the... Basically the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organisation that was set up to monitor the atmosphere for radioactive particles, isotopes, emissions from nuclear testing. There's a comprehensive test ban on nuclear explosions and these sites, there are 60 of them around the world, and these sites actually measure radiation released from nuclear explosions. So the ones in the Pacific were starting to detect this and actually invent it in Vienna. They released the information. I think it was, I don't know if it was a mole or an insider who just wanted to make sure that it got out, because as well as radioactive data, the CTBTO collects geophysical information, so it's seismic activity, tsunami activity, and on top of that the third thing they do is maintain and monitor any radioactive release as a telltale signature from nuclear explosions. Okay, so they started picking this up and then on Thursday it was released from Vienna. And they said on Friday it would be making landfall in California. And actually today one of the CTBO stations based in Sacramento actually recorded very small, so although they're very small, they're present particles of iodine, I-131. And so, you know, it's fairly real that what we have in the upper air jet stream and or coming down in the rain is potentially going to land here. And that's something we should just be aware of at this point in time is still I would I would safely say still fairly small but it's certainly coming this way all the time now it's made its first landfall from when it first started and the fires broke out on Saturday or Sunday of last week and so for the last five days the uh cloud trail has been coming east so uh we're joined by Dr Ray Pete today and I want to introduce Dr Pete and then also ask him um from his sources if he believes it true that the uh radioactive iodine has reached our our um land yet um it's probably present in detectable amounts but probably not yet biologically significant but it could quickly become concentrated enough to affect pregnant women on uh because they feed us concentrates elements from the environment at least a hundred times faster than other tissues and so during the first two or three months after an accident like that there will be a radioactive iodine which would be concentrating in the embryo and fetus uh other isotopes such as cesium and and strontium would continue to be dangerous if they got into the food supply but the radioactive iodine is one that's most crucial for developing babies. So um Dr. Pete we wanted to go over and discuss what different foods and nutrients could help protect us from increasing levels if it does increase or more dangerous levels of radioactive iodine that may be present and or cesium and or strontium from this cloud that is coming over from Japan and we wanted to go through the list of different things that specifically can block those radioactive particles as well as in general what nutrients are protective. The first principle is to dilute the radioactive isotopes with good stable relatively stable isotopes and so old food is best. The iodine radioactive isotope is practically all gone after three months after the production of it and the others will eventually tend to wash down into the ground and so the plants that grow in the first few months after an accident will contain those isotopes. So if you have canned food, dried milk or aged cheese, these are very safe and will continue to be safe for months because they were produced before the accident. Other principle besides diluting the isotopes is to increase your resistance to stress and radiation. And it happened that my very first newsletter 30 years ago was on radiation resistance and what to do in case of a nuclear accident. And at that time I reviewed......a couple of thousand research articles both from the old APC, Atomic Energy Commission research, and a lot of it from the Soviet research. And the main conclusions that I found were that increasing the metabolic rate, which causes cells to retain magnesium, magnesium is very important in repairing cell damage, and the faster the metabolic rate is, generally the more damage can be repaired before it becomes established as a stress factor in the organism. The high metabolic rate produces carbon dioxide. Which has an antioxidant, anti-stress effect all through the organism. So if you keep your metabolic rate up and eat a balanced diet, your tissue is going to retain the magnesium it needs out of the food and produce the carbon dioxide it needs, assuming that you're getting adequate protein, sugar, fat, vitamins. a balance of minerals. So you mentioned to me earlier that there are ways and foods that we can eat to keep our metabolic rate high as along with taking thyroid. So can you expand on what types of sugars and fats and proteins we should be ingesting? The ideal fat is coconut oil because the short chain saturated fatty acids compete....with the other fats that normally are slowing metabolism and oxidative metabolism. And so for a couple hours after you eat more or less a tablespoon of coconut oil per meal, for a couple hours your metabolic rate is increased, producing more carbon dioxide and accelerating cell repair processes. Fruits that come from the tropics, the farther south the fruit is grown the longer it will be free of this high latitude Japanese radiation. So oranges grown in Mexico, Brazil and Florida are still going to be pretty pure in terms of radiation for a very long time. And the... The sugar and the minerals in oranges are very close to what we need. So coconut oil, orange juice and milk as a good source of calcium. During the atmospheric bomb tests in the 50s and 60s, I got interested in the study the government was doing. They were doing it secretly before it became public for a long time. They were collecting baby teeth from around the world to measure the fallout effects. The government began recommending that people not drink milk because milk was contaminated with the strontium which was taken up along with the calcium. But I looked at the... actual analysis of the food value as well as the isotope content of vegetables and found that a person getting their nutrition from vegetables was going to have about five times higher exposure to strontium-90 than people who got their nutrition primarily from milk and cheese because the cows were able to concentrate the calcium. and filter out a little more of the strontium than the vegetables were doing. You mentioned to me that in order to get enough calcium to protect against your body's own bone destruction that you would have to drink one to two quarts and eat some cheese daily and that same amount of calcium from green leafy vegetables would be about three pounds of spinach per day. Is it something like that? Yeah. And then the fact that you're eating so much spinach that could have been contaminated with strontium, you'd actually be exposing yourself to much higher levels of strontium. Yeah. And can you talk to us about what you'd recommend for elimination methods? Like if we are breathing in or ingesting radioactive particles, what's the best elimination method you find to take? Because I know there's a lot of stuff on the Internet about all these different things you can take that will help bind. The radioactive particles, but what do you recommend, Dr. Pete? Well, once it gets into your digestive system, if it's coming in incorporated in the food, there's really no way to sort it out. But if it's in the water, for example, if you can just keep a lot of fiber flowing through your system, like eating fruit that you know isn't contaminated. Carrots, for example, if you know that they're safely grown, uncontaminated, will sweep the material through your intestine, preventing the absorption of some nutrients at the same time that if you're exposed to a very concentrated... dose from a rain or something, it's better to go hungry for a little while, while sweeping out your intestine. So would you consider, just to kind of go back a little bit here, but would you consider the radiation that we might have been exposed to thus far dangerous enough to avoid drinking any milk and eating any vegetables from California and Oregon? Oh no, not yet. If the reactors start burning fuel rods, someone is likely to leak the information in time that people can take precautions. But if it reached the proportions of Chernobyl, then it would take extreme measures for a very long time using... Only stored antique food, the older food would become more valuable. So it sounds like we need to start stocking up on sugar and dried milk powder? Yeah. Okay, and other things that can help move things along in the intestine are all the various liver herbs and cascara bark powder at all speeds intestinal transit time. Well, I did want to ask you, Dr. Pete, there's a lot of hype around people using potassium iodide already and it's selling out of the stores and people using kelp, and can you please explain to our listeners how taking kelp or the potassium iodide supplement would help protect them against the high amount of radioactive iodine in our environment? It simply dilutes the radioactive isopope when you're taking in a lot of... bold, stable iodine. It saturates your thyroid. Your thyroid shuts down and stops taking up anymore. And so you can add a radioactive iodine to a saturated person and it just gradually washes out without concentrating at a very high level in the thyroid. But if a person is deficient in iodine. Almost all of it will, once it gets into the bloodstream, it will stick in the thyroid gland and give an extremely high dose to the gland. And even more so to a developing embryo's thyroid gland. The fetus will concentrate even more than the mother's thyroid. The potassium iodide is very good. protection but only from the damage to the thyroid gland. It doesn't do anything at all to protect against the other isotopes or the other tissues of the body as some people are saying on the internet. In fact probably if you took it more than enough to saturate your tissues the center for disease control. Advocates 160 milligrams one dose. If you took that much every day for a long time, your thyroid gland would shut down, your metabolism would slow down, and you would, all of your defensive reactions would slow down, so you would become more susceptible to injury throughout the rest of your body. So you're not recommending that people take any kelp powder or potassium iodide at this current level? No, just the minimum requirement is only 150 or 200 micrograms and even one milligram per day continued for a very long time increases the risk of damage to the thyroid gland, thyroiditis appears. Increasingly, when people eat just a milligram of iodine or more. And do you know the measurements on how much is in kelp powder? How many milligrams is in a teaspoon of kelp or a half teaspoon of kelp? No, but probably a half teaspoon. I think people have calculated that it would take an ounce to be equal to the Center for Disease Control amount, but probably a half teaspoon is. Adequate to saturate most people. But only once we have more information saying there is actually elevated levels of radioactive iodine in our environment? Yeah, one half teaspoon dose isn't going to hurt anyone, but you don't want to do that every day for a long time. Andrew, did you have a question? No, I think what was, like you were saying Sarah, the rush on buying potassium iodide was pretty apparent. I know. I saw plenty of information regarding that, and the thing with iodine, if I'm right in saying this Dr. P, is that the radioactive iodine that was present in Chernobyl was also responsible for the big increase in thyroid cancers, and now you're saying that pregnant women are actually more susceptible even than young children. Yeah, Ernest Certainglass, who got interested in the issue. When they were doing atmospheric bomb tests, the government timed their bomb tests in Nevada so that the wind wasn't blowing towards the big California cities. They wanted all of the fallout to go into Utah. And the population of Utah suffered the most from autoimmune diseases and cancer and other diseases. Occasionally, the rainfall would be so light that no fallout would come down until it got to the East Coast and one of these times Ernest Sternglass had his students studying how to use their Geiger counters and they found that there was a terrific amount of radiation at university which the government hadn't mentioned to anyone. And that got him studying it and paying attention to how dishonest the U.S. Public Health Service and Atomic Energy Commission and state public health officials were. But he showed that probably there were tens of thousands of miscarriages and the babies that survived a very high percentage were. Hypothyroid, even, there was an epidemic of babies born without their thyroid gland. And as long as they were being breastfed, the mother's thyroid was entering the milk at a high enough level to cover up the symptoms, so as soon as they were weaned, they were discovered not to have thyroid gland. Going back to cover-ups or suppression of information, I found it quite interesting from the moment the tsunami happened and the evolving situation at Fukushima was passing day by day with ever increasing explosions, etc. I found the most information, funnily enough, coming from Russia today, that news agency there, I think, probably not suppressed so much by the West as the BBC even. I found the BBC's coverage was pretty good. I found Russia's today. Their coverage was pretty excellent, and they had the most up-to-date information, I presume, because the time zone, they're much more on a par with Japan. So, in the waking hours, they were picking up the information as soon as it was being released from sources in Japan. But I wonder what would be the best, I guess to keep monitoring Russia today, but the best source for people in America to be able to find out more about local......local results with real time and real figures to show what actually is in the environment. I wonder what would be the best way to go about doing that. I don't remember the web address, but there is a good nuclear site, basically an anti-nuclear power site that is getting up to date information. The other thing was, I was looking on eBay at Geiger counters, of all things, just to see, you know, they're out there, there's hundreds of them on eBay, and they're not expensive, and I think a lot of them are kind of post-Cold War, post-Three Mile Island, so the getting hold of a Geiger counter to actually do some physical measurements yourself. For a while, the internet stores were selling old Soviet Geiger counters. For about $15, someone just told me that she and her neighbor had bought two at $35 and as soon as the radiation scare hit, the price went up to $75. I saw them on eBay and they were going for about $150 to $200. I can get hold of the information pretty quick, but they were all fairly similar. They were kind of bright yellow and maybe about the size of an egg carton. So I'm actually holding mine right here, which I got on the internet. I could have paid anywhere. I got the cheapest, basically, which cost me about $250. I did see even cheaper ones on the places, but the really good expensive ones cost $10,000 to $20,000. The little booklet I got with this, you know, I can tell some kinds of radiation from other kinds, but I basically have it beeping, and I got it to check out both industrial metals and phosphate fertilizers, and I did find some things which are definitely hot by mine. It's not beeping much more than normal right now though. All right, let's get back to some of those some of those things that people could... Yeah, we do have a color on the line, but I did want to at least go through a few more of the anti-radiation nutrients. Dr. Beat, caffeine... There's lots of information out there about tea and coffee, and can you describe to us briefly what the nutrients are in the tea and the coffee and how caffeine helps to protect against radiation? Coffee is a good source of magnesium and of some B vitamins, niacin especially, and the caffeine is anti-inflammatory and antioxidant, and so if you happen to have some......mobile isotopes that are still in your bloodstream and going through your kidneys, caffeine helps to flush them out faster and safely. It has a slight chelating effect as well as anti-inflammatory. And...sorry, carry on. The things that have an anti-estrogen effect as well as anti-inflammatory, the... Radiation effect itself imitates estrogen in the body. Everything that estrogen does can be imitated by radiation including making a rat go into estrus, for example. And if you're in a high estrogen state, then you're more susceptible to radiation injury. And that's why progesterone and thyroid and caffeine......helping to lower estrogen and inflammation are protective against radiation, too. So, just to recap those, you said caffeine, coffee, because it contains magnesium and B vitamins, progesterone to block the estrogenic effects of radiation, other antioxidants like vitamin E also blocks the effects of estrogen and helps with radiation, and vitamin C and orange juice and tropical fruits. Vitamin A found in eggs and liver helps in the repair processes. I wanted to briefly ask you about the glutathione that's been touted to help with radiation damages. There's a lot of confusion around glutathione because anything that harms your cells turns on a defensive reaction and increases the glutathione. And so a lot of things that have... exactly the wrong effect are being suggested on the basis of increasing glutathione. But many harmful things by stimulating that defense reaction will increase glutathione. And taking a large dose of glutathione in itself, animal studies showed that it could be carcinogenic to the liver just by starting free radical reactions rather than stopping them. Other anti-inflammatories that can help protect against radiation aspirin of course which comes from white willow bark well not anymore but originated from white willow bark also ginkgo tumeric those are other herbal anti-inflammatories. Various adaptogenic adrenal herbs the luthero root American and Korean ginseng have been shown to help with radiation sickness and we mentioned the B vitamins are ready I wanted you Dr. P to talk to us about Animal liver, which contains a lot of B vitamins and the fat-soluble A, D, E, and K vitamins, and why it's contrary to popular opinion, it's actually less toxic than the other parts of the animal. Yeah, the liver is the main detoxifying organ. The kidneys and brain have some of the same detoxifying enzymes, but the liver is where the great bulk of it....of detoxification happens and there have been studies in which beef were going into the slaughterhouse, their urine, blood, and tissues were measured, and a large proportion of the animals, more than a third, showed chemical contamination in the blood and urine, and practically all of them......were boycott....had the same chemicals in their fat and muscle tissues, the meats that are most popular, but only a very tiny proportion still had any of the toxic chemicals left in their liver for the first 24 hours after you're exposed to an insecticide, for example. It will collect in the liver and be bound to a certain kind of......protein, but during this first day in which it's collecting at a high concentration in the liver, the liver begins destroying it, and after just about 24 hours, the liver has cleaned itself and then begins the slow process of cleaning the blood as it draws toxins out of the muscles and fat tissues. The fats are relatively inert, and so the highest toxins accumulate there over the years, so the fatty meats are the most risky as far as the chemical poisonings go, the liver's the cleanest. Okay, good. There's a caller on the line, so let's start taking the callers because there may well be one behind the other. Hello fellow downwinders of the vast nuclear corporate industrial empire. I've been watching the news and I thought maybe it was the website that Dr. Pete mentioned, a nuclear information site. It was on the news. A couple of programs had the plume coming from Japan and it indicated that the very first place where it was......hitting the West Coast was actually Cape Mendocino from about Eureka to Fort Bragg. That was like at 11 o'clock last night they were showing that map. So we're the initial fallout point of that particular plume. And I have a couple of questions concerning... The first one before I forget, the first colon cleanser that you mentioned, I didn't quite catch the name of that. What was it again? Grated carrot. Raw carrot. Once again. Raw carrot salad. Like raw carrots. Oh, raw carrots, okay. Yeah, I had a little static on the line on the radio when you had mentioned that. And I understand also garlic is supposed to help bring iodine into the system. Is that something you're aware of? Dr. Pete? Oh, what was that? Garlic. Garlic, oh. It has some antioxidant effect, but I don't think it has a big effect on iodine. Okay, and then this weekend we're... Trying to safeguard ourselves with our potassium iodine salad, which is bananas and seaweed. Is there... I mean, if we don't really, you know, go out and eat a whole lot of... I don't know what the flavor is, but it's got to be better than the taste with plutonium and uranium that's literally raining down on us. Is there a cautionary amount that you would eat of some kind of fruit slash sea salad like that, that would be reasonable to start maybe implementing some protection? Dr. Pete, did you hear that question? The last part of it I couldn't hear. Okay. Basically, he's suggesting eating a banana and seaweed salad to provide potassium. The seaweed kelp and dulse, for example, or sea organisms like shrimp and oysters and clams, those are good sources of iodine. That's a good source of iodine. But the banana issue brings up an important aspect of radiation which is bananas are probably one of the richest food sources in serotonin and some biologists, Carmel Mothersill and Colin Seymour for example, have been studying the effects of low level radiation on cell. Physiology and communication and they find that at a very low level ionizing radiation causes cells to produce serotonin among other agents that even if you take the injured cells out of the organism or the culture dish, the water that they were in when they were injured becomes equivalent. To the radiation for other cells, the same kind of genetic damage caused directly by the radiation can be caused by the chemicals put into the environment by those injured cells and serotonin at a level above 20 nanograms per milliliter is one of those communicators. of radiation damage. They, in one of their books, have a study by some of the biologists who worked with the Chernobyl victims, both the children who have been living in the region and the people who survived working at the accident, and they find that the serum taken... from these exposed people 20 years after the accident their serum separated from their blood components added to another person's cells caused radiation damage equivalent in those cells and since they identified a very small amount of serotonin as one of the factors spreading this inflammation genetic destabilizing material I think it's good to avoid as many sources of serotonin as possible especially bananas good well so when it said that somebody is going bananas there's actually a pharmaceutical psychological aspect to that it sounds like well I guess I'll be adding raw carrots to our salad and reducing the amount of bananas is there any benefit to eating dried bananas to fresh bananas considering the psycho pharmaceutical aspects of the serotonin in there um there I think shifting towards gelatinous meats away from muscle needs would help to reduce the tendency of the tissues when inflamed to produce serotonin. A good balance of vitamins and minerals helps to avoid excess serotonin production during inflammation, but all of those anti-inflammatory things that have been mentioned are basically anti-serotonin. My final question on estrogenics concerning ingestion by men, I don't know if Saw Palmetto is one of those, but is there anything that maybe should be taken to pre-empt the estrogenic effect of radionuclides, as far as the difference between men ingesting them and women ingesting them, or is it at a point where maybe drinking water out of a plastic bottle with a bisphenol A is... better than dealing with the radionuclides that that might preempt it at least over the next couple of weeks and thank you very much for the programming and release the line thank you for your call dr pete did you hear that gentleman's last none of it okay yeah we have a little bit of feedback here so he was um asking about the anti-estrogenic uh what else could be taken out uh for as what else could men take that's anti-estrogen to help protect against the radionucleotides and also um whether you would recommend people drink bottled water versus water from spring or well in the next several months given that the bottled water is a potential source of estrogenic substances i i think a good filter for well water is is adequate and progesterone is um very anti-estrogenic and for men uh keeping the thyroid function high is the main thing um aspirin and thyroid are able to inhibit the estrogen that's produced as a result of stress okay i've actually just thought of something and in the in the water filter um is the cause we we have water filters that we run our water through and i know that the core of the filter is a as a carbon a pleated carbon core is that carbon there is that able to sequester things like iodine if it was in the water um yeah i think carbon captures uh almost any any solid will absorb to an activated charcoal okay good all right there's two more callers on the line so let's take the uh take the next one you're on the air hello hi you're on the air um well the brown seaweeds like wakami and kombu especially kombu or high in sodium sodium alginate And they're supposed to take all heavy metals and radioactivity out of your body just not the iodine so don't you think they would be good? Did you hear that dr. Pete? Um, yeah, if you if they pass through your intestine. Well, yes eating them Yeah, they aren't going to be any more effective than a good cellulose Anything indigestible that stimulates your intestine? I will sweep out with the sodium alginate Well, the trouble is that alginate is very dangerously allergenic for many people so I wouldn't recommend it unless you are sure that you're not sensitive to it because I don't know one person that eats kombu that's ever had an allergy to it Dental patients have died and dental students, a very high proportion of the dental students working with alginate to make molds, surprisingly healthy young dental students are reacting to it. Well, that's a concentrate that they made, not a whole food product. Well, carrageenan is somewhat worse, but the alginate itself has the potential to be dangerously allergenic. I think in light of raw carrots being so absorptive in the intestinal tract and non-digestible meaning that if they were contaminated themselves when you eat them you're not going to be absorbing heavy metals and when they wash through your intestinal tract they're going to be absorbing potential heavy metals and radioactive particles. Oh, well I think carrots are a good idea but so is seaweed, I think. Well, see, taking too much seaweed will actually lower your metabolic rate and make you... Well, too much, yes. Well, even eating it daily is enough, it doesn't take that much in order to start suppressing the thyroid. Okay, thank you. Okay, you're welcome. There's another caller on the line. You're on the air? Oh, hello. So, yes, what I recommend using is mushrooms. There's this mushroom right around here called the Turkey Tail, Tramedes Versicolor, and this one is actually in Asia is used as an anti-cancer drug because it has a high-quality protein-bound polysaccharide, which is discovered very effective in cancer and also in treating cancer patients that had chemotherapy in their survival rates and stuff. It also has other qualities that are free radical oxidizing compounds and all kinds of things like that. And other mushrooms are the same quality which are called polypore mushrooms which is the riche is one. And these big thick conchs that grow like wood like looking mushrooms. And these mushrooms have been studied in Japan and around and have been proven to produce......the T-cell production and, what is that, interleukin production? And I was wondering if you had any idea about that. Dr. P, how much do you know about those particular fungi? Oh, what was the name of those? Well, he mentioned the things like the polyphores, the... The turkey tails, the one that grows around here is the most common and I make a tea from it, just by drying it in dust, in a powder. Okay, do you know that fungi? It's actually the most studied fungi in the world as far as medicinal. Are you speaking about reishi? Related to reishi is also a polypore mushroom, it's a thick mushroom. Around here, if you look on these trees, there are just layers of these mushrooms, they're like tri-colored mushrooms, they're called turkey tails. They go like green and brown and with a white edge. They grow on all like the oak trees, the maple, all basically hardwood trees and they're the most common mushroom probably in the world. They grow in the most from boreal forests to tropical forests and in every state in the union except for I think Nevada or something. I think a lot of the um and they've been studied all over the world and they actually make this uh uh commercial uh thing it calls Creston it's actually called. the anti-cancer drug in asia okay i've not heard of it but i think a lot of the mushrooms have the polysaccharides that are active at um absorbing a lot of things from the gastrointestinal tract right and that's why i'm saying they they use them in chemotherapy and stuff like that so i'm just saying that uh well they also have um um you know for uh other types of uh things besides uh antioxidizing compounds but uh so i always take mushrooms anyway i'm a big fan of them and i would recommend that people use this mushroom it's growing right on it you look under your oak tree your apple tree your uh big tree over here on the ground and you look at the dead branches and you see it's covered with these mushrooms they're very dry they're dry mushrooms and that is called the turkey tail okay well people can people can check that out on the uh on the internet and find out some more about it yes i'm not i'm not too familiar with it yeah it is like it has been used with reche okay i'm familiar with reche yeah and that's another one of the probably and the other one that is around here is uh are those you ever see those mushrooms they're like they look like a piece of wood real heavy thick things growing off of a tree uh... yeah i think i was called yeah yeah yeah and that went to it then uh... as a thing called anything all right okay with thank you for your call and i know there's a couple of other people probably wanna get a question in so let's take the next caller hello hi you're on the air all right so uh... i have a great website the epa has revamped for the general public so we can easily access the graphical representation of the raw data of the monitoring sites along the west coast okay and that is? so you can see the actual gamma and beta radiation levels what's the name of the site? hourly? what's the website? okay here it comes you guys ready? I know people are waiting uh... worldwide web e-p-a dot g-o-v backslash japan twenty eleven backslash r-e-r-t backslash rad net r-a-d-n-e-t hyphen data dot html okay good well maybe we'll get to that i wrote it all down okay great okay let's try it it's really handy i already looked at it we haven't seen anything unusual anywhere yet okay so we'll get to using that department after 2011 forward slash r-e-r-t you said uh... Japan 2011 slash R-E-R-T Okay, that's it. Okay. Hyphen data dot html. Check. Okay, good. Well, people can go check that website out and then see how that compares to the C-T-B-T-O information, especially the one that was published from Vienna on Thursday. Thank you for your call. Yeah, thank you. Okay, thank you for having the discussion. Okay, thank you. Good night. Uh, anymore? I think there's... Oh yeah, no, we have a full board all the time, and Dr. Pete's taking up online, so people are probably getting lots of busy. I have one announcement, uh, someone is teaching a Kunlun Meigong class. I'm not sure exactly what that is, and it's a strengthening the immune system yoga of some sort, and it's Saturdays, 3 to 6 p.m. at Stretchy Pants Yoga, call 223-2902 for an immune strengthening class. Okay, thank you for that. Are there any more calls? Yes, there is. Good, okay. Go ahead, you're on the air. Yes, I was wondering about using D-ribose to raise the metabolic rate. Okay. Dr. Pete, did you hear that question? D-ribose? Yeah. D-ribose. I think that the main risk is that those things are produced industrially, very often have contaminants that that no one knows about or mentions on the labels. So you have to be very cautious that you don't have an allergic reaction to any of those semi-purified chemicals. You If that plays out, I think particularly the thing that I'm thinking about, Dr. P, is if that third reactor, the mixed oxide fuel reactor, actually becomes a fire, or the fuel rods in the pools actually become combusted, and there are release of that fuel, the plutonium particularly is the dangerous, the very dangerous and very long half-life isotope, isn't it? Yeah, at that point, I think people should either, if they can't move to Bolivia, they should think about building a giant greenhouse and getting some goats and chickens to live in the greenhouse with them. Uh-huh. Yeah, well, I hope it doesn't come to that for sure. I think there's one more caller on the line, so let's take this caller. Hello? Hi, you're on the air? Hi, thank you. I did come in late, so I'm sorry if I missed the answer, but... Oh, you were talking about, um, various vitamins and their... Could you turn, could you turn your radio down? Sorry. Yeah, I'm sorry. I was trying to step away once. Okay, um, you were talking about various vitamins and are you suggesting only get those from a Whole Foods, or what about supplements from a reputable company like Rainbow Light or something like that? Well, I think Dr. P's always recommending fresh fruits and, uh, so, Dr. P. Yeah, for an emergency, uh, like just for a period of two or three weeks, while the cloud passes over, I think it, it could be, uh, for most people it could be helpful to take a, a B complex supplement and, uh, to, um, eat extra eggs and, and milk and, uh, very nutrient-rich foods, uh. But a B vitamin supplement is pretty safe and helps to keep a maximal rate of metabolism supported. Okay, did you, uh, you heard that okay? Yeah, thank you. Um, and so will there be a place to go to hear the whole, um, show tonight? Yeah, you can pick it up online, um, at kmud.org. Okay, and then what you do is you go to the audio archives. Yeah, and then under audio archives You'll find the third Friday of each month. There will be a Friday night talk. It's called it's from seven till 8 p.m Yeah, just search via the date Okay, which today is March 18th. Yeah, so go to Friday night talk and it's all there. Excellent. It's been a great show Thank you. You're very welcome. Thanks for your call. Okay, yeah, I know we've got five minutes to the hour of eight o'clock, so unfortunately it's coming to an end. Were there any more callers on? No, okay, there's no more callers, so let's... Okay, so Dr. P, if cesium, the half-life is 30 years, and it's supposedly heavier than iodine, do you think it's true that more is likely to fall out over the Pacific Ocean before it gets here, or I wonder if there's even sites showing that it is here? Yeah, I think there would be a little bit of... Everything that was produced, there would be only a very slight difference in fallout in the rainfall. And going back to potassium, I know that Kala was asking about bananas, but orange juice is very rich in potassium and potassium will also help your body pick up less cesium like the iodine in the kelp will help your body pick up less radioactive iodine. 50 years ago I proposed that the safe thing would be to have industrial sized greenhouses which during, if they were going to keep doing the atmospheric bomb tests, I suggested that all vegetables should be grown in either petroleum or coal-fired greenhouses providing......fossil carbon dioxide to avoid the radioactive carbon isotope from the fallout, and using limestone as the safe source of calcium for fertilizer and other fossil minerals to give the complete non-radioactive food source for the... plants and animals that were being used for food. But by 1963, the government had agreed to stop testing in the atmosphere. One of the reasons that I did my newsletter in 1981 on radiation protection was that beginning with that huge burst of... atmospheric fallout from the bomb tests in 1963. The scores, all kinds of indicators of intelligence, babies born in nine months after 1963's burst of atmospheric tests, their SAT scores were showing up in 1981....as the lowest of history, and it turned out people were arguing that it was because more poor students were taking the test, but actually it was the high-scoring people who were eliminated from the SAT scores. The high scores decreased progressively in proportion to the amount of fallout being produced by the bombs okay we're going to have to we're going to have to call it a night dr pete i'm afraid i'd love to hear more and i know a lot of other people would but it's uh one minute to eight o'clock now so we've got to stop it at eight thank you so much for joining us yet again i really appreciate everything you have to offer for more information you can visit www.raypete.com and you can reach us toll free 888-888-888. 926-4372 or locally 986-9506. Thank you for listening. We'll talk to you next month. Thank you. Good night. and support for came on comes in part from golden dragon medicinal syrup an anti-inflammatory anti-fungal antibacterial antioxidant medicine made without heat or ice golden dragon medicinal syrup is organic edible topical cosmetic and water-soluble information available at golden dragon medicinal syrup at gmail.com and by phone at 707-223-1569 and I apologize Please remember that this program is supported by the listener members of Redwood Community Radio. If you like what you hear, please consider becoming a member of KMUD or renewing if you've already joined. A regular yearly membership is $50, but we accept any amount. Help us keep free speech alive.