 Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Reb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. Well, it's 2020, folks. It's going to be a fantastic decade. I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to 2020. It's going to be a good year. Okay, so you're listening to Ask Your Reb Doctor, KMUT Galapagos 91.1 FM. From 7.30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock, you're invited to call in with any questions related to this month's subject of vibrations. Frequencies and cell repair and regeneration through sound and vibration. The program is a live program like I said from 7.30 to the end of the show at 8 o'clock. We'll open up the phone lines for people to call in. Dr. Raymond PhD is joining us again and as he has done for the last 10 years I think now is a wealth of knowledge and Whilst I know he doesn't express himself as a What do you call it an expert on sound He knows enough about a lot of different things that I know he can weigh in on the subject of some of the most interesting and recent 2019 and 2020 publications Based on research that is accessible through the PubMed website being done in a very interesting field of medicine and some of the uses for, excuse me, for sound and electro frequency magnetic spectrum type vibration is used in the treatment of cancer. So we've got an interesting article to open up a little bit later on. So just by way of introducing the show, my name is Andrew Murray. I run a business called Western Botanical Medicine. I've been a naturopathic doctor here for 23 years. We manufacture our own range of medicinal herb extracts and deal with a lot of people all over the nation consulting about a wide range of health conditions and has for the last 10 or just over years been very much working with Dr Pete to get his insight onto what I thought was the way things were when I graduated in 1999. I did a four-year degree in herbal medicine in England. After a three-year degree in botany and was taught by medical doctors and physiologists and endocrinologists and pathologists and they all came from City Hospital in London and various other medical institutions and were basically teaching the same kind of dogma if you like and I know Dr. Pete and I have opened up quite a few discussions based on around the errant. recapitulation of supposed facts of which Dr. Pete is very able to expand and show the defects in the understanding and the dogma which is unfortunately guided medical decision, medical technology. But anyway, without further ado, let's just see if Dr. Pete's with us, Dr. Pete, you on? Yeah. Hi. Great. Well, thanks so much for joining us in this next decade. I want to put the question to you. I hope you'll be around for another decade. I'm planning on it. Yeah, good, good. Okay, so for those of you perhaps have never listened to the show before, you've not heard Dr. Pete, Dr. Pete, would you just outline your professional and academic background for people to understand where you're coming from? I had a master's degree in humanities and after about ten years went back for a PhD in biology at the University of Oregon. In 1972, on reproductive aging was my dissertation topic. Okay, so reproductive aging, so you've been pretty intimately associated with all of the factors around reproduction and organized cell growth to maximize the organism's potential and they're having worked with you especially surrounding things like... you know, neonatal health, children's health and the kind of foods, you're very much a food-based scientist in terms of not buying into the fads of all the things that are thrown at us through supplements but you're very much a kind of a very natural kind of approach to treating disease and I know you don't really generally advocate a lot of supplements but I know that progesterone is one of your pets if you like having you probably studied that a lot. During your PhD in terms of its use as a factor in organized cell growth and anti-inflammatory processes. Incidentally some of my experiments had to do with the electrical behavior of tissue under the influence of progesterone, estrogen, prostaglandins and so on. Interesting okay so we're going to get into that so I don't know let's just hold that thought for a second. I think I'm hopefully going to be able to prime you to bring that back up again but you've always mentioned and this is kind of a little bit off the off the side of the topic thrust as it were but you've always mentioned estrogen as being an excitotoxic molecule and unfortunately most women who are listening. Or perhaps maybe the more educated ones that understand a little bit more about what you've taught over the last 30 or 40 years probably understand estrogen as being a female hormone and you know the whole hormone replacement therapy thing really pushed it as a pro life hormone you know they want to say that'll help your bone thinning stabilize it's good for osteoporosis as it were and it's good for degenerative conditions when actually it's a very hormone that is based and implicated in inflammation. And excitotoxicity so I was very very excited to see the articles when I was looking for the material for today what did this evening's talk basing it on sound vibration cell signaling I was going to get I'm going to get into a little bit later on to get into the kind of tuning forks resonant frequencies a little bit about rife although I know you've already said that you you know you found it interesting but you don't know too much on it so I'm not asking you to be an expert or anything on that but whilst I was looking through the paperwork I saw a very interesting article on breast cancer and the the the journal article actually wasn't one of the newer ones but most of what I saw with sound and vibrations were actually in 2019 and 2020 publications so I was pretty blown away and I think this is becoming another resurging subject for people with science and academia are in the forefront to actually prove this now as being a modality it's a little bit like the whole Tesla battery car thing you know coming into a fruition hopefully to put the whole fossil fuel thing firmly under the rug and bring forward a new clean technology but I find a lot of the articles that I see on PubMed as much as I know you said in the past they are not exactly the best places to go and there's a lot of corruption there obviously in any medical research depending on who's funding it but very interesting to find in this age that we're in and definitely with the internet and computers at the forefront of our ability to search and index things that people are actually picking up a lot of these things that would have been just put down to new age just crystal dangling and you know just not given any scientific foundation upon which to voice their findings but most of what I saw then in 2019 was fairly fairly pretty cool research that's being done on things that I'm very happy to see so this one particular article even though it was a 2013 article the others that I'd like to cover with you as we go through this mainly 2019 and 2020 documents and I'll give people a link for these people want to go and search these themselves to find out what we're talking about but this 2013 one it was titled low intensity and frequency pulsed electromagnetic fields selectively impair breast cancer cell viability so this was a an article of which the abstracts just go through the introduction methods results in conclusion but essentially they were saying that this pulse electromagnetic field therapy was a very good treatment for breast cancer that didn't affect normal tissues and it was non-invasive obviously and could be potentially combined with existing anti-cancer treatments now i think they have to put that in there anyway as a kind of a caveat to not displace the conventional treatment because i think that's the dominant paradigm and but just to say that actually they found a good reduction in breast cancer growth using these pulse frequencies and hopefully we'll get into this in a little bit as we go on but do you have anything to add to what was used here as a kind of low-intensity low-frequency vibrational output there directly affected these cells. They weren't in that experiment paying attention to the effects of frequency. So it was just really giving some kind of excitation to the cells. But other people like the Rife tradition have been trying to identify particular frequencies that are more effective. Either exciting or calming the cells. In the 60s, people were trying to use direct current to control cancer growth. Professor Johns Hopkins published an article saying that he had regressed mouse memory tumors just using the application of direct current polarization. So just applying current, but not a... Not pulsing. It's known that cancer is electrically excited. It's like a wound that is stuck in an electrically excited, negatively charged condition. I mean, for as much a... death and morbidity that cancer is responsible for, cancer cells are not exactly strong. They're pretty weak, aren't they? They are very fragile in a lot of ways and so I think some of the some of the work that's been done, either vibrational or electrically, certainly has validity in disrupting that cell stability because they don't particularly have very stable membranes in terms of the normal architecture of the cell. And being electrically charged and excited, I think, makes them more susceptible to vibrating energy fields, such as in that experiment. Okay, so, when I started looking at this, I saw that most of the articles that I pulled out that I wanted to just go through with you, using this pulsed electromagnetic fields, most of these, and they were always... obviously, because that's how we do it now, quoting these in hertz, whereas before, you know, 50, 100 years ago, they were called, maybe a little bit earlier than that even, they were calling them cycles per second before they termed it hertz, and before that they didn't even really understand or have a concept of the second before about 1830, which I found that was quite interesting, that most time is, well, originally measured by... the sun, or the passage of the sun, and that's how people measured time, given that that's a celestial thing that transcends our earthly fixation on the planet, but that once they had devised this method for measuring time and then came up with the second, then the cycles per second and the hertz became a scientific, if you like, valid measurement of frequency, and then the whole. Industry, if you like, sprung up around this and then getting later on into solfeggio tuning and what most musicians that I've spoken to that said oh yeah we just tuned to 440 hertz now and it's not the way it was and if you really like Gregorian music or Baroque music it was definitely not 440 it would have been 432 hertz and how there's a subtle change in that but getting back to. Frequencies and how a specific frequency can affect a cell given that we are 90 something plus percent water all of the molecules in our body and not even the watery ones even the more kind of solid cells have membranes that are fluid and can and do respond very much to vibration and that's something that we have just been part of you know growing up and evolving and you know we're subjected to the sun's ultraviolet and infrared and and they all those spectrums that we kind of live with and I think in going through some of the other discussion I wanted to hopefully bring bring your knowledge out on with the current deployment of 5G and how there is all these you know fairly worldwide protests about 5G and then pulling down 5G towers and this you know having to bring up these big committees to discuss this because there's such an outrage at what could potentially be a very disruptive technology in some ways that we are very much organismic and sensitive to light and vibration light being a frequency and all of these things whether it's photons of light or it's Energy whether this energy is high energy obviously the radiation which is very bad for us, but there's very low Frequency electromagnetic fields are even lower than the kind of background. They said that the earth kind of resonates at about 8 I think is 8 just under just under 8 Hertz. They were using frequencies between 1 1 and 80 I think Some of these were more down in the sort of 9s, 10s, 12s, 13 and 14 Hz and actually showing that people were getting benefit from this and there's a whole breast cancer article introduction you were saying again that they weren't so much focusing on the frequency of it? Yeah, in the 60s doctrine, there are still people arguing that cell phones aren't causing brain damage or cancer and so on. But that argument that cells are pretty immune to various frequencies started back in the late 40s when radar was accidentally killing people who stood in front of the radar antenna. And... The authority opinion at that time was that it was only by overheating your brain or other organs that electromagnetic injury could harm you. And in the 1960s, that was the dogma that neither sound nor electromagnetic energy below a certain... frequency and energy could have any effect on the units of the cell, such as chromosomes or mitochondria. And a person was working with muscle cells in culture and measuring the activity of ATPase, which controls the disposition of energy in the cell. And they found that... I think it was the pitch of 440, which was very powerful at activating that muscle enzyme. And they showed that the conventional theory of the cell was impossible for that low frequency, moderately low energy. But the dogma says that the energy concentration per... micron or any unit of space is too low to do such things as causing chemical changes. But the person demonstrating the effect showed that, in effect, the cell structure was acting as an antenna concentrating, gathering energy from several microns of space. and concentrating it so that it could act on the enzyme. That's the essential difference. At that time, the conventional opinion was that it would be impossible to make a magnetic resonance imaging device because of that same idea that the cell is organized randomly. But it took the interaction between Gilbert and Lenin. And his organized water explanation of cell function and Raymond Damadian who realized that if Gilbert Ling was right about how water behaves, you can make pictures of the water in cells electromagnetically. So it is the invention of the MRI device. It really changed the possibility of explaining cell function. Okay, all right, so you mentioned, I just want to quickly put this up there before I just let people know how to call into the show. Yeah, you mentioned that in the 50s and 60s that was happening and that just triggered me to think about all the bomb testing and how they were trying to tell us all that the atomic bombs are completely harmless and how people could stand in front of them and they wouldn't get any. Any negative effects on it, so they were saying the very same thing about the low frequency, low energy, although the atomic bomb is the opposite end of the spectrum, it was very high intensity gamma rays and it was very, very damaging, but they really wanted us to try and cover that whole thing up, the whole radiation industry and that everything that we've got now from x-rays to PET scans and CAT scans has all come from that and it's still being covered up and just made harmless as it were. Yeah, that's part of the reason that they denied that Gilbert Ling had an accurate description of the cell because if his picture of the cell is right, then radiation, electromagnetic energy and so on is very relevant to the cell function. Okay, let me just let people know how to reach us here. So you're listening to Ask Your Ep Doctor, K.M.E. De Galberville, 91.1 FM. The number here from 7.30 on, if you'd like to call in with questions related or unrelated to the evening subject of vibration, cell signalling and everything surrounding sound and vibration as a modality for treatment, the number here is 707-923-3911. So again, 707-923-3911. Okay, so Dr. P, the first article then I read out, the breast cancer treatment selectively damaging breast cancer cells, selectively leaving regular tissue unchanged, was done with a frequency from 20 to 50 Hz and they used 30 to 90 minute exposures and said that these were the optimum parameters for selective cancer cell killing activity. So that was pretty interesting. I didn't look at cell death from breast cancer any further because I was looking at lots of different types of treatment to different types of pathology that would be mitigated through sound. The next one I was going to ask you about was bone regeneration. I found a lot of different abstracts and articles supporting this. One of them here, a 2019 article in the Journal of Clinical Medicine, was translational insights into extremely low frequency pulsed electromagnetic fields for bone regeneration after trauma and orthopaedic surgery. Now if you open the link up, I'm not saying you have it, but if people want to find out what these are, when you open the link up there's lots of information there showing how people with different traumas and surgeries that were done were treated with... sound and how this improved osteoblastic activity, so the actual what we understand, at least at this point in time, about bone building and bone breaking organs within the bone, so the osteoblast build it and the osteoclast break it down for remodeling, that this sound actually had a very specific effect on the osteoblast to improve bone mineralisation and bone formation and structure. So that was pretty interesting. Another 2019 document. Have you heard of, I don't know, this kind of probably plays a little bit into ultrasound, but I'm not actually sure of the frequencies that ultrasound works at. For treating things, they use anything from 50,000 to 100,000, but the imaging is around a million cycles per second. 50,000 to 100,000 Hz? Yeah, that is a very effective wound treatment. Around 1970 or earlier, someone discovered that putting ultrasound on infected tonsils caused them to recover and become normal and inflamed, and that gradually over the next 10 or 20 years. They found that bone healing was accelerated and soft tissue wound healing was accelerated, similar to what happened in the tonsil. Part of that is thought to be the activation of cell regenerating signals such as nitric oxide and estrogen that accelerate stem cell growth. Multiplication, the early stages of healing. Yeah, okay, so if I just, I quickly actually had this article here in front of me, so I just wanted to, it's like I said, it's a 2019 article and they said that here, being used in the treatment of acute bone fractures and bone fracture non-unions, osteotomies, spinal fusion, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. And saying that these studies favoured the use of extremely low-frequency pulsed electromagnetic fields and saying that they wanted to establish indication-oriented treatment regimens and to understand more of the underlying mechanisms in the sense of the cell pathways and the events that are triggered. So some of the other articles that I've got that I wanted just to outline here break down in pretty fine detail exactly what pathways... These things are affecting and people that are listening probably recognize the words interleukin, prostaglandins and these other signals of excitation and toxicity and inflammation. A lot of what was happening with this sound was that it was blocking a lot of what we understand as these pro-inflammatory pathways and allowing either free radical quenching......of this kind of excited state during inflammation and trauma, or was having another indirect anti-inflammatory effect? The imaging of bone density or osteoporosis can be done with ultrasound. You can tell the strength of a bone as well as its density if you use ultrasound. And since ultrasound stimulates bone repair, it would be reasonable if doctors would evaluate aging women's bones using ultrasound, but they x-ray them and x-rays actually weaken the bone and accelerate osteoporosis. So it would be a good change of technology to use to switch over to ultrasound. A friend of mine who is... for a year or more had had liver enzyme elevation and signs of hepatitis or developing cirrhosis, had a very prolonged ultrasound examination of her liver. And a couple of weeks later went back for another exam and her liver had completely recovered. I suspect it was from that very... half an hour or so of looking around with an ultrasound imaging device. Yeah, so the mechanism by which that would have had an anti-inflammatory effect, I guess if we just look at something like hepatitis as an inflammation of the hepatocytes, inflammation quenching activity then of ultrasound would be... a relative positive mechanism by which that could have happened yeah because i know you've mentioned in the past that ultrasound is just generally a good healing modality whether it's for bones or tissue soft tissue or you know um you know even yeah actually let's have a look here i think some go on i i think the only place it shouldn't be used it's around the head because it tends to emulsify that tissue if it's too energetic you don't want emulsified brain cells okay we do have somebody who has called in at this point in time so let's just begin begin this decades questioning with this next caller caller you're on the airway from and what's your question hi i'm from texas and i have two questions yeah go ahead uh one do you think meditation is safe if you're trying to lower breathing rate and increase co2 or can it have bad effects like increasing serotonin or something like that Dr. Pete, meditation, obviously we all think about meditation as being relaxing, calm and regenerating but what the gentleman is saying about co2 I think most people tend to hyperventilate too much and if you can just relax and stop hyperventilating you retain more co2 and that has an anti-inflammatory everywhere in the body so you'd advocate meditation correct yeah yeah definitely okay cool i think you had two questions that was the first one or yeah that was the first one and uh do you know what could help to reduce the need for sleep aside from increasing co2 because that basically helps everything did you catch that dr p i missed it no not the whole yeah say that again please do you know what things could help to reduce the need for sleep oh to reduce the need for sleep oh yeah well how much sleep how much how much sleep are you getting and what do you want to reduce it to because I know Dr. P definitely advocates a good 10 hours if you're not getting into the deepest phase of sleep called slow wave sleep or deep sleep your tissue isn't being repaired adequately and so you need more hours of it and so if you do things that will deepen your sleep then you can reduce it to the normal six to eight and a half hours and thyroid hormone and vitamin D are two of the most important things for maintaining deep sleep. Okay and can vitamin D increase serotonin and worsen sleep or is it just a matter of getting an calcium to counter that? Serotonin and histamine are both brain excitatory signals and that's why antihistamines are used for improving sleep. They're both antiserotonin and antihistamine drugs that do improve sleep. But you can do the same thing with good nutrition, lots of calcium, vitamin D and thyroid. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Okay, now, some antihistamines obviously are sleep-inducing, correct? Because they purposely make these non-drowsy producing antihistamines. Do you think there's any difference in the mechanism by which they're being? Well, histamine is... Basically, an inflammation signal and insomnia, you are having, in effect, an inflamed brain. And you can quiet it by getting the energy production up with thyroid and sugar and all of the nutrients. But the antihistamine chemicals are everything that works in a different direction from adrenaline. Adrenaline is antihistamine but it is also excitatory. So insomnia usually involves both adrenaline and antihistamine. The adrenaline is attempting to turn off the histamine but if you get your energy up you turn off both of them and let the brain relax. Right, now so let's be clear about that, so relax. And relaxation is not negative, I just want to make people understand this, when you say it allows your brain to relax, that's exactly what thyroid hormone will do through the correct utilization of sugar, and then when you said that during the night time is when most inflammation of the brain will happen, and this is because of a lowered energy state, adequate thyroid and adequate sugars prior to sleep or in the post six hours to sleep and or during the night time will keep those inflammatory. Mediators down and reduce that inflammation and most aging changes occurring during the hours of sleep and darkness. Yeah because you said darkness is not good for you obviously it's something we can't avoid perhaps if we're in bed at night time with the lights off in a dark place but the dark is not good for us the light is actually what's very energetically stimulating for us and supportive etc. Okay, we have another caller on the air. So let's get this next caller on the air. Where are you from caller? And what's your question? Hi, I'm from McKinleyville. Hey, what's your question? Well, I have a question about infrasound. We were just embattled with a wind factory that proposed a whole bunch of wind power turbines. And the proponent......denied that there was any effect to what's called infrasound, the sound produced by these turbines that are below audible range. And I'm wondering if you have any thoughts or information regarding biological effects of infrasound. I think cell culture gives an insight to what might be happening. The infrasound frequencies are something around 50 per second... 30 per second, or even as low as 10 per second. If you're growing cells in culture, they always lose some of their properties that they had in situ in the organism. And one of the tricks to make cell culture more lifelike is to give it some kind of pulsation because... Cell physiology depends on the fact that the blood is rhythmically pulsing through the system. And the pulse rate is in the infrasonic frequency. And there are many other frequencies that every cell in the body normally receives stimulation, so it's nervous....pulses, as well as blood heartbeat pulsations. So, thank you. I take from that, then you would expect there to be physiological effects from a constant infrasound. Yeah, I don't know that anyone has clearly demonstrated it, but you can use equivalent pulsations to show that you... are changing the cell physiology in vitro. Thank you very much. Yeah, thanks for your call, Paul. Interesting question. I know there's definitely been protest groups that have sprung up around wind farm sites and potential wind farm sites. I know England, parts of Norfolk in the east of the country there have had a fair amount of wind farms because it's so flat and so windy, but yeah, interesting question about infosounds. Well, thanks. For explaining that, Dr. Pete, well done. Okay, the number here if you live in the area is 707-923-3911, the lines are open now until the end of the show at eight o'clock. Dr. Raymond Pete is joining us on the show and we're discussing vibrations, cell signalling, resonant harmonies and healing frequencies, although we haven't really got into too much of that at this point in time. But very interesting questions. Anyway, good. Dr. Pete. Before the next caller comes in, I'm sure there'll be some more callers, but I wanted to just bring out some of the parameters in which these 2020, this is a 2020 article here, so it's very new, very current. And I think over time, there are more and more descriptive processes to explain how, and I think scientists basically are committed to needing to explain in full detail. And I think that's great because, I mean, with detail comes disclosure, with disclosure comes the possibility of reaching some novel idea that might bring us into a 21st century appreciation of good health rather than the old paradigm of radiation and cutting things out and really not recovering very well. Actually, before I start, I think the lights have started flashing here, so let's make sure that we don't cut people off. Yeah, we have one more caller. So caller, you're on the air, and where are you from? What's your question? ________________ Hi, I'm from Berkeley. I have an appointment next week to start my interferon for my hepatitis C, but I had a very thorough ultrasound on my liver to find that out. So should I ask them if I don't need the hepatitis C? I don't want to go through the interferon. You said interferon, are they still... Maybe the ultrasound would cure me. Well, I guess first things first, are they still... I didn't think... I thought they'd stopped years ago, three or five years ago, using interferon because it was so brutal. Okay, then I don't know what they're going to give me. I don't know what the treatment is. I'm going to find out on next week. Yeah, I can't imagine it's interferon, but Dr. P, I know what you're saying here about ultrasound and hepatitis, and do you want to speak to that? Oh... Not in a short time like this. Okay. The only thing I think I would say to the person here that's called in about this, potentially, I don't know how severe your hepatitis is, what parameters they've used to assess how much damage you may or may not have received. I know people are so different in their presentation, some people just don't even know they've got it, their labs look fine, they feel fine, some people are crippled with it. So... I don't know about your situation. I think what I would say to you is that if your blood work doesn't look bad and you don't feel bad and you are relatively old, it sounds to me like you're dealing with it okay but it's a kind of personal question they'll be asking you about your previous labs, your state of health etc to make a make a valid call on what you would best do. Okay, I'm 60 years old. Was that 60 or 50? 60. Okay, yeah. All right. And do you know what your lab values for your inflammatory markers are for your AFP? No, I have no idea. They just said it wasn't, I didn't, it wasn't very bad. Yeah. Yeah, it's, you know, it's a very personal call. I know people have gone both routes. Unfortunately, I know people that have had, they had the old interferon treatment. They failed it. They wound up actually with cirrhosis, portal hypertension, they died from oesophageal variceal bleeding, and it was terrible. I know other people that have had hepatitis C for 50 years and they're absolutely fine. Even though they've got high liver enzymes which seem to implicate them in liver inflammation and damage, and I know people that have got hepatitis, they've got perfectly normal enzymes. So it's a very widely presenting disease, if you want to call it a disease. And I know Dr Pete. You're almost on the fence as to whether or not it's actually a virus or whether it's actually RNA that's leaked from cells from prior traumas. Yeah, I think the test to identify it has done more harm than the virus itself because of the kind of desperate attitude that they take with things like interferon. I think people who probably wouldn't have had any problem if it hadn't been diagnosed have been injured by some of the treatments they get. Actually on the point of this subject I know years back when I'd question you for a couple of patients that I'd spent time with and knew personally was on a kind of more personal level with them. I thought you said that ribavirin which I think was one of the treatments along with interferon that was a standard. treatment was not well not actually that bad I think one of those and I don't think it was interferon you always said interferon was like massively inflammatory and very negative on the system but ribavirin actually might not have been a bad compound to try but yeah I think it's harmful yeah okay all right I don't know if that helps you in any way caller but what I would do if I was in your shoes I would definitely assess your assess your labs and assess yourself I mean how do you feel um okay okay you know no i feel really good i feel really good but okay what's the one thing what about the hydrogen peroxide uh the strong hydrogen peroxide that you you do those drops say that again that you do treatment with hydrogen peroxide like 30 drops a day oh no you're not talking about mms uh mms are you the miracle mineral supplement that's actually bleach which no no no no no it's it's actually it's hydrogen peroxide and you can bite it daisies it's a human strength or whatever uh well you start out like one drop a day and go up to 30 yeah that sounds just like mms which is actually uh um the same sodium hypochlorite which is uh regular household bleach uh it was a fad and i can't believe it's still on the internet it's absolutely all over it and i'm kind of amazed that it's still going and it's still got such a strong following but uh you'll find testimonials about this that and the other on it and it starts off at one drop a day and ends up with however many drops and there's people writing testimonials about how it's done this and done that and it's kind of unbelievable really but um i would i would say that i would not i would not get involved with it dr pete uh you've probably been if you heard about the mms it's like yeah there was a study in italy that identified it as a probable carcinogen right yeah so i would probably i would probably not i probably i would not go down that route ma'am okay well i sure i sure got a lot out of this call from you guys online it was great yeah thank you so much yeah you're very welcome okay yeah happy new year okay if anybody else wants to call in we've got 14 minutes so we've got one more call ahead but the number in there if you're in or out of the area doesn't matter where on planet earth you are at 707 923 3911 707 923 3911 and let's take this next caller you're near call away from what's the question I was diagnosed with osteoporosis ten years ago mi Could you turn your radio down, ma'am? I'm turning 66 in a couple of days, you know. And supposedly I have an osteopenic spine, whatever that is, a femoral neck that is osteoporotic, and a total osteoporotic hip. However, I feel fine, you know, I do. I just walked 44 miles to get my tooth extracted from Shelter Cove the other day. Oh my gosh. Okay ma'am, I guess first things first before we let Dr. Pete answer it. Also the vibrational thing, I'd like to talk about pulse waves and, you know, I'm a musician and I believe in music therapy and pulse sonar waves are able to help bone growth. Sure are. I've got articles right in front of me man. I do believe it because you know I've been studying music my entire life. I have a degree from Catholic University of America. Could you turn your TV down? It's on in the background. It's not my TV, it's my radio. I like to hear what's going on. I'm not deaf actually but I can hear things and talk at the same time. Here, I don't have a TV. I've never had a TV in my entire life. Okay, if you could turn the radio down that would help a lot. It's down now. Thank you. So Dr. P, I know you know a lot about a lot of things and osteoporosis is something I've questioned you on recently but... And I also have osteomotor hypothyroidism. Well, there you go. That goes hand in hand with osteoporosis, ma'am. Yes, but mine's genetic from being northern Italian. Well, I'm not too sure about the relevance of that, but Dr. P, go ahead. Vitamin K is very important along with vitamin D and calcium intake. Vitamin K......prevents the removal of calcium from the bone and keeps it out of the soft tissues. The combination is much more effective than either one alone. Okay, so they give vitamin K, calcium and D. Let's see if any other callers are going to be calling in here in the last 9 minutes or so before we wrap the show up. Once again, 707-923-3911 and Dr. P is joining us once more this decade. So getting back to, until the lights go off here, but getting back to some of the some of the measurements by which they support the abstracts that I've looked at. This one particular abstract here was showing that exposure to a cytokine production by lipopolysaccharide which we've heard and discussed before in the past and that this compound lps is responsible for inflammation cells and in this pathway the pathway of the inflammation basically adenyl cyclase and phospholipase proteins kinase c and several other protein kinases here were seemingly modulated....by these sound waves and they're saying that this is evidence of why this post-electromagnetic field therapy had such a significant effect on inflammation and quelling inflammation because it's directly interrupting these signal pathways that normal inflammation is involved in. I think normal activity has some of those effects, anti-inflammatory effects. If you're forced into inactivity, you develop a generalized inflammation in probably all of the tissues and free activity, work that is productive using your muscles, walking, for example, rather than sitting, the normal activity of muscles lowers the stress hormones, and increases the constructive hormones such as progesterone and DHEA and testosterone, and normal activity in itself is an anti-inflammatory process, and I suspect that these certain frequencies are imitating the normal rhythm of proper activity. Okay, we do have another caller who's... waiting here, so caller you're on the air, where are you from and what's your question? Hi, my name is Julie and I'm from Laytonville. Hi Julie. My question is, I have fibromyalgia and I'm trying to navigate through this still, I've had it for 10 years, but I find that when I get into a big city and I'm around a lot of power lines and stuff like that, I start feeling a little not well. So I didn't know if there was like any relationship between those two things. Well Dr. P, your understanding of fibromyalgia is a little different from the current medical normal model of it. I think a lot of doctors are coming around to recognize the importance of hormone balance, a good thyroid function, vitamin D and keeping up the constructive hormones or steroids like. Progesterone, testosterone and DHEA. Okay. And especially as you're female, I don't mean this in any negative way but because you're exposed in an unopposed way after your menstruation has stopped to estrogen that is very important for you to make sure you get adequate progesterone because it's the antagonist of the inflammatory estrogen and that in fibromyalgia. uh no doubt that estrogen excess or estrogen dominance certainly has a role to play in that tired waterlogged muscles of which estrogen is a main cause oh okay well i'm 63 now so i don't have too many of those you don't you don't but you don't have any uh any way to combat the estrogen you're still producing you're every cell in your body is still manufacturing or can manufacture and secrete estrogen but your ovaries no longer function and so therefore you're not getting progesterone exposure which is very important to offset that okay and which is part and parcel of the osteoporosis question i was also wondering um but not to uh say to dr peter we didn't mention um you know progesterone um as a yeah anyway so carry on yeah cortic cortisol is a bone destroyer and progesterone is the main antagonist of cortisol okay so is there a book or something that I can get on this subject that you guys are talking about that you would recommend? You haven't written one yet Dr. Pete about it have you? We've talked about it a lot over 10 years but nothing's materialized at this point in time but Dr. Pete what I would say to you ma'am is that at the end of the show I give out Dr. Pete's website he's got plenty of articles actually surrounding just what you're talking about although a lot of it is for the sake of it very science based and some of it may be a little hard for a novice to grasp it's very well grounded in science and so therefore it's it's very easy to catch the thrust of what he's saying and certainly you can find out more information if you're on the internet about some of those concepts precepts and directions that you get taken in good deal well thank you so much i appreciate your time now you're welcome okay we got one more caller i think this would probably be the last caller before we wrap up the show but caller you're on the air and what's your question away from oh i'm local person and i believe it was helga clark that wrote the cure for all cancers and i wonder if the doctor approves of the device that she created to you know tone out certain bacterial frequencies and i can hang up now i think she used just a simple low voltage direct current stimulator and that device can be used productively but i don't think she understood enough to use it productively well yeah interesting oh thank you yeah you're welcome okay so i don't know maybe we can squeeze one more in if someone wants to call in it's 707-923-3911 otherwise I'm sure we've got enough to carry on with here for a couple of minutes to let people know how they can reach Dr. Pete. I think probably Dr. Pete, I don't see the lights flashing here, will say thank you very much for your time this month, I look forward to next month obviously we as usual but thank you we didn't get in we didn't get into as much as I thought we might do so we've got material for next month if you're available I'd love to carry on the subject it's definitely very interesting okay thank you okay so for those people who've listened to the show this evening and or listen to this on the audio archives or on the web dr pete's web address is www.raypete.com he's got a huge list of articles that have been written that are fully referenced scientific articles that you would expect to see in any good journal fully referenced for the things that he's saying so it's not just his opinion there's many many articles from all sorts of different pathologies so go take a look at his website like i said a lot of it's very science based so maybe a little bit um tough chewing for some people to get through it but nonetheless what we need is good science to underpin a good direction to go in because i don't think the medical model we're using at this point in time uh is a particularly good model it's certainly uh really damaging in some cases and does not really tolerate too much criticism about it so anyway uh what we do here on this show once a month from the third friday of every month from seven till eight pm is discuss alternative treatments alternative approaches and indeed bring up some old past research that's been done that may either be revived in the light of current knowledge or just because it's become forgotten it's just valuable to bring it up again to make sure people recognize that there is and has been and still is answers that are there and available so that people don't have to go down one particular route to get treated for a disease it's not always one pill works for everybody obviously it's very far from that and i would encourage everybody to do their own research there's plenty of alternatives out there and like that lady who called in with hepatitis you know obviously if she is close to cirrhosis and she's dying and there's nothing else that can be done obviously there's a potential treatment for her which you know in the light of current research seems to show some fairly significant results I won't say it doesn't but obviously you've got to understand it in the context that Dr. P understands things in so it's not the last thing to do it's not the first thing to do perhaps but it'd be the one of the last things to do if everything else has failed. Anyway, so my name is Andrew Murray. I run a business called Western Botanical Medicine. I produce herb extracts of medicinal plants. I was trained in Europe, graduated in England and we do what we love. We've been doing it over 20 years now so all the best to everybody out there who's tuned into the show who maybe supports our products and our business. Our whole aim is to help you naturally. Anyway, thanks for your time and until next month. Happy New Year!