 Well, welcome to this month's ask your doctor. My name is Andrew Murray From 730 and to 8 o'clock the end of the show. We do a live. I do a live call-in I say we because dr. Raymond Pete Always joins us and has done for several years now The number of you on the reaches I'd love to hear from you about either tonight's subjects continuing topic of serotonin Inflammation superoxide, oxidants, antioxidants and several other subjects, but the number is 707-923-3911. For those of you who perhaps have never heard Dr. Pete, we'll be giving out his details at the end of the show. And for those of you who know a lot about him and listen to lots of what he's got to say and read his books. I'm sure you'll find this evening's show just as informative. It's a once a month show that we do from 7 to 8 p.m. and from 7.30 until 8 o'clock we do a live call-in. So if people want to call in with questions related or unrelated to this month's subject on a continuing topic of inflammation, serotonin, etc. Our number is 707 923 3911 so from 7.30 on and if people want to line up. Ahead of time before that that's just fine too because that also happens so once again very pleased to welcome introduce Dr Raymond Peat onto the show. Dr Peat you with us? Yes. Okay thanks so much for giving your time again as you always do every third Friday of the month for us. For those people who perhaps have never heard you or heard your name heard you speak or know anything about you perhaps would you just outline your professional and academic background and then we'll get into tonight's topic. Okay. I got a master's degree with a thesis on William Blake from University of Oregon 1960 and then taught various schools and colleges and in 1968 I went back for a PhD in biology University of Oregon. I was graduating in 72 and I've been following up on... pretty much the same interests ever since the 50s, studying how the brain and body work. Okay, thank you. I was going to ask, I wanted to ask, I didn't prepare this ahead of time, but when did you stop seeing people in person? Because you used to consult with people, right? Yeah, about 1990 I think it was. All right, well I just wanted to let people know also that's something I should have done at the very beginning of the show because I often find myself wondering what month it was the show was done in. It's November, so November the 15th 2019. So Dr. P, carrying on from where we left off last month, talking about or discussing parts of your newsletter, but only a small part of it because we didn't get a lot of time to cover it, excuse me, but I had some more questions then about... tryptophan and serotonin. And given that serotonin is formed from this amino acid tryptophan, if we are to, if we're to avoid this, like, because the whole, the whole aegis of this is that serotonin is an inflammatory molecule. It's responsible for many negative effects in the body. And obviously, we'll get you to outline all of those things in detail here so people can understand just how... you know, just how bad it is for you and its negative effects and why the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are so bad for you given that they allow this product to remain in larger concentrations in the body. How best can we avoid tryptophan ingestion in order to try and get an edge on the serotonin that would be formed from it? Tryptophan and its metabolites, including serotonin, is essential for life. Every kind of organism is built with proteins containing tryptophan. And the very nature of life, as I see it, and as Albert St. Georgie......researched it, he, for the last 30, 40 years of his life, was demonstrating the electronic nature of life. The fluorescence, luminescence, electronic conductivity and such of living systems, the proteins interacting with water, producing......excited electrons and light emissions, and tryptophan is the amino acid that gives proteins that basic property that, according to St. Georgi, is the essential mechanism of life that lets it sense and move. He was a muscle researcher....among other things, and this electronic property is at the heart of both sensation and movement, and all of the other familiar properties of life, secretion, consciousness, and so on. So, when something goes wrong with tryptophan or its metabolites......it disturbs life at its deepest level. Cell division and all other functions depend on this excitability of tryptophan. And in the muscle protein myosin, for example, there's one particular tryptophan which is most sensitive electronically. to light interactions such as phosphorescence. And this tryptophan interacts electrically or electronically with cysteine, which is an oxidizable sulfur protein. And these are sort of the electric motor of all the life processes. And they happen to be the essential things during the growth process of an organism. But if you keep the same ratio coming in in your diet and stop growing, they are no longer being consumed in proportion for growth. And so... they become sort of free actors which can spread excitability and oxidizability randomly in the organism. So during the growth period of an organism, you need the full balanced range of amino acids. But when your body growth stops, all you need to maintain... The renewal of your skin and intestine lining, lungs, all of the turnover of brain proteins that are being renewed and so on. That's a very small amount of growth that's going on compared to in your infancy and teens, those amino acids....are now at risk of becoming random excitatory inflammation-promoting processes. And it happens that gelatin is a major protein that is used for building frameworks, connective tissues, and it has a complete lack of these excitable... protein cysteine, methionine and tryptophan. And so if it becomes a major dietary protein when growth is completed then you reduce the risk of the inflammatory and degenerative diseases. Do you think this could be mitigated through, I mean I know you don't at all promote any aerobic exercise. Or stress inducing exercise but given that I've come from a kind of, not that I am, but I come from a kind of bodybuilding perspective where you do recommend lightweight bearing exercise for people of all ages and actually very much support its use for producing muscle mass, muscle burning glucose, being thyroid stimulatory and supportive. If these amino acids are being consumed and somebody's actually doing some work then would that warrant that diet remaining that way because obviously there's an ideal in life and you've mentioned the gelatin and it being completely absent from these inflammatory amino acids but in terms of a balanced diet that would contain some of these, would you recognize work doing work by lifting small weights and exercising your body is? Yeah, by the age of 30 or 40 when growth is completed the bulk of our energy is spent just in maintaining the body but it has to function to be maintained and renewed. If you have a cast for example. On your arm muscles will atrophy because they aren't being used, so just to maintain what we have, we have to be active and that includes mental or spiritual activity, keeping a freshness of perspective. This is the environmental enrichment. Yes, stimulation of everything, mental processes as well as varied physical activity. Do you think there's a place for people to get more, it's kind of outside the context of this month's show but leading question from what you're saying but in terms of people who are aware to affect their health. Doing things that hopefully they're interested in obviously outside the mundanity of work if they're not interested in that but they have to do it but actively engaging and pursuing things that require them to be mobile and engaging with the environment and yeah, environmentally enriching them to be a process that is supportive to the organism in terms of producing good, I don't know, not just feelings but Good results in terms of feeling fulfilled and that fulfillment transferring into a mind-body state that's supportive rather than degenerative and reductive. Yeah, it always has to involve newness and invention. Even conversations can be relatively athletic. Okay. Alright, you're listening to Ask Urb Doctor on KMU Degas with 91.1 FM and from 7.30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call in. The number to reach us here is 707 923 3911 and I just got to ask the engineer actually, the clock is missing. What happened to the clock? I didn't actually go check in there to make sure the clock was there. It's actually not here. I suppose we should put that on our checklist. Well, not a bad idea. I'll start like going like that when you get towards the end and I'll start doing the music very quietly. I just want to make sure that... If you just pay no attention, the music will get loud and it'll... Just want to make sure that we have timely intervals to remind people who we are. I will say I will open the lines for calls that have passed. How about that? Sure. Okay. So Dr. Pete, carrying on about tryptophan, you've always mentioned that this should be in balance and that's why you've always talked about gelatin, gelatin rich products because it's in the muscle meats where we get the greatest proportion of tryptophan and that would be, you know, consuming excess amounts of muscle meats and I think you don't rate more than four ounces or six ounces as being beneficial for us because of the tryptophan content. Yeah. So it's I guess it's possible to to avoid and again this is kind of a little bit off topic but I was I looked at a program that was about plant-based and I don't want to get into a discussion necessarily about plant-based versus animal-based proteins but it was quite an interesting documentary about and I think they followed several people maybe four or five quote unquote athletes obviously because I think they're at the top of their game. But these people were either vegan or just basically got all of their protein from non-animal sources. It was all plant-based proteins and They you and McGregor actually was that I didn't have to know him of course but he is like an MMA fighter and he was at the top of his game and he was fighting a Title bout that was going to challenge him for his title. And the chap that he was fighting was a vegan and in the interview McGregor was really castigating him and saying that he was you know just a plant eating you know whatever he was weak and he was going to destroy him in the fight and McGregor lost and it was such a shock in the circle because he was at the top of his game and they proved they were doing this physiologically showing that meat consumption i'm not anti-meat at all you know. But they were showing that the consumption of meat actually slowed the organism down and it actually, I know you've mentioned things like cadaverine and putrescine as being byproducts of meat and definitely which is why you advocate not hanging meat, you know, like they do in England perhaps they'll hang pheasants until they start falling apart and same with their, you know, the venison. But anyway getting back to this title flight, they said that they showed physiologically how it was slowing the organism down. Him down and how his muscles were not able to repolarize, react, repair as quickly and recover as quickly. And they were saying that it was pretty much based on his diet and they were really they were really putting meat consumption down. But I don't know... I think the high phosphate content relative to calcium is a big part of that. It wastes the energy. It's like a constant. It's a subliminal stimulus that tends to load the cells up with calcium as if they were fatigued already. Would you be supportive of a plant-based protein diet over getting any kind of meats? Because I know you stand very strongly behind gelatin. Well, the problem is that a lot of the... plant-based proteins are either overloaded with phosphate, the same as meat, or they have potential allergens and defensive molecules that the plants have that no animal has. Right. So you still advocate very simple amino acid type gelatin protein sources, and then obviously things from dairy. Cheese, milk and eggs as good quality clean proteins. Yeah, but it's a tremendously important field for research to find what plants have the proper nutrients and don't have the toxins. Right. So like you say, they're nearly always conjugated with the oils, the liquid oils or the polyunsaturates from the nuts. Yeah, then there's other sources, obviously tofu and soy protein has been implicated with having kind of estrogenic effects. As well as high phosphate. Yeah. Okay. All right. So anyway, so getting back to what we were talking about with tryptophan and serotonin, I wanted to ask about, and this will branch out a little bit later into insulin resistance. And cholesterol production and kind of just go in a few different directions but I try and keep it as focused as possible that superoxide dismutase then this is an enzyme that degrades superoxide and superoxide salt is a health food supplement and it's an extreme oxidant, correct? Yes. And so very damaging and I know last month I asked you just to... break down the oxidation, anti-oxidation kind of concept because we're bombarded with these... I mean obviously vitamin C is an anti-oxidant and we know vitamin C is very good but there's also anti-oxidant effects that are not necessarily positive, correct? Oh yeah, too much of an anti-oxidant as typical cancer metabolism for example. Right, go on. Okay, so then that cancer metabolism is a lactic acid-producing physiology as a byproduct, okay. All right, so let's move on then to talk about proteins in terms of muscle building and that kind of thing, but most proteins contain tryptophan then which is converted to serotonin, and do you think... Is it possible to contain enough non-tryptophan containing proteins for continued muscle growth and repair? All of the proteins other than gelatin that I know of will support proper growth and repair. Right, okay, all right, fairly straightforward then. All right, and then let's have a look here. I wanted to ask you about the pH of the blood. And I know there are people, especially on the internet, if you're looking for any kind of guidelines for health or health-related topics, they'll talk about acidity and alkalinity, and I know the pH of the blood is kept very tightly between 7.35 and 7.45, I think. How much can this change? I mean, it's not really possible for that to change, is it? Oh, yeah, I've seen... very sick people with extremely high blood pH, 7.5 or 6, for example. Oh, really? Okay, it can go outside that range. I thought the body did everything it can to keep it... It does. A person has to get really sick for the blood to change outside that range. Okay. And you can do it momentarily just by hyperventilating, blowing......breathing so fast that your carbon dioxide is being lost. And that can push your blood pH very high to the point that you might faint or die. When you lose too much CO2, the increased pH tends to cause spasms, including blood vessel spasms, cutting off the circulation of your brain. Can you do the opposite of that? Because I know you're an advocate of increasing CO2. Yeah, re-breathing in a paper bag for example, you can correct out and lower the pH of your blood to the point that it can start weakening your muscles and causing too much vasodilation. Right, so it is possible to go the other direction equally and oppositely. Yeah, a muscle weakness is the worst thing that happens. All right, nothing too much more serious than that because I know some people were really getting into CO2 baths and re-breathing CO2 in a kind of... Yeah, if you're just soaking it in through your skin since you're breathing in the ordinary air even though you're absorbing a really large amount of it through your skin. It's going to equalize with the air and so you can't overdose sitting in furious CO2. Okay, all right. Can I, I wanted to move on again just to reiterate this for some people perhaps. I'm not too sure the connection was made quite as clearly as this, but I was looking at some articles today just going through some material to see what else could be fleshed out with this evening's talk carrying on from last month. Statins, I'm going to go on about statins again but just to mention again that the brain actually creates its own cholesterol and cholesterol systemically is too big a molecule to get across the blood-brain barrier and I know I asked you last month about the blood-brain barrier and how physiologically intact it was and I know that you mentioned several......several components that wouldn't typically get across a blood-brain barrier could in certain instances and I think a little bit like the intestinal barrier. Yeah, fairly large fats can massively go into the brain, escaping from the blood. Interesting. Okay, so you say fats and fairly large fats but you don't think that cholesterol will pass the blood-brain barrier, do you? Yeah, I think it can, given the right circumstances. Wow. Okay, because what I wanted to say was that in so far as the literature is concerned, I'm not saying the literature has it right and you don't, but so far as the literature is concerned that molecules, they say, is too big to get across the blood-brain barrier and hence whatever the biological reason for however long we've been around, the brain, because it is such a both energy-hungry organ and because the white matter of the brain is principally... They say that 20% of the body's cholesterol is actually in the brain and presumably because of the white matter and presumably because of the insulating effect of cholesterol on the neurons and that the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase produces cholesterol and that statins. For those people, unfortunately, who might be using them, but hopefully they'll look to an alternative if they don't completely ban them, but they probably won't because they're making too much money from it, this, the statins do pass and cross into the blood-brain barrier, so… I imagine what they do to the brain is what they do to the muscles and if you're soaked in statins and do vigorous exercise the… …interference with cholesterol can cause your muscle to break down and simply dissolve and disintegrate and I'm afraid that same thing can happen in the brain, accounting for the depression, suicidality and such. Right, because they're saying that these are some of the common side effects that they advertise as part of their disclaimer for the product, so… But just to bring out again from a kind of a simplistic, maybe mechanistic point, that the fact that you have this stacking crossing into the brain and actually lowering your brain's cholesterol is a definite reason or cause for concern because typically if you had a low cholesterol situation which was not actually due to just an inherently high genetic reason for producing cholesterol that if you start lowering it systemically and this is crossing into your brain and your brain is suffering as a result of this you're going to get some very very odd neurological side effects of it. The old brain is sort of like a clump of atherosclerosis it's got lots of cholesterol but it's bound to fatty acids and in the old brain free cholesterol is actually lower than in the young brain it's the bound up interfering type of cholesterol that accumulates in the aged brain as in the aged blood vessels But your brain is not like that is it? Avoiding vegetable oils for a long time probably helps All right, you're listening to I have no idea what time it is, but you know, okay, there you go You're listening to ask. You're up. Dr. Cammie de galville 91.1 fm and from now on to eight o'clock You're invited to call in the questions. So dr Raymond p uh is our guest and the number if you live in the areas or if you even if you don't live out In the area if you live anywhere on the planet, it's seven zero seven nine two three three nine one one um I looked at and to be you're counting. Okay. This is expecting the phone to start ringing Okay, so I was looking at some some some articles this afternoon. I saw an article about hand cellular which you mentioned Quite a lot saying that he was doing work on muscular dystrophy And by administering serotonin to animals This was this was uh cause they actually could he could precipitate muscular dystrophy in animals um, uh, yeah, and uh That was In the late 50s and early 60s that he was doing those experiments and uh Despite that being in the literature in the 70s uh tryptophanes supplements became a popular fad and there was a lot of uh sickness produced by it uh, uh, I think there were uh mental problems, but uh muscle inflammation and an immune problem was the focus of the disease that became well-known and the FDA blamed it on a bad type of tryptophanes that they had never explained, but Hansele was producing it with tryptophanes simply in excess. Okay all right we have a we have a caller on the on the line so uh let's take this call a call away from what's your question? Hi good evening I'm calling from Santa Barbara California. Hi welcome to the show. Thank you um I just had a question are you familiar with the hair tissue mineral analysis test? Yep go on yeah. Okay great I just had some results of that and my first question was is I have a very high sodium to potassium potassium ratio my sodium is 34 and my potassium is 1 I just wanted to know what could be causing that and what do you do about it? Was it a hair analysis? Yeah, a hair tissue analysis. It could be that you have hard water or have a water softener that puts sodium into the water. Yes, I know Barbara has water softeners in most of the houses. Do you have a water softener in your house? Yes, I do. Yeah, okay. That puts sodium into the water and so it will skew the hair test. Ah, okay. And then just one more on those. I have the ratio between the calcium and the potassium is very skewed as well. My calcium is 46 and the potassium is 1. I'm not sure that that could be from hard water rather than softened water, but I wouldn't worry about a hair mineral test, a serum test is much more useful. Right. Yeah, there you go, it's basically anything that you're exposed to, like Dr. Pete mentioned in the first instance here, if you're showering and your water's been......softened that way, then that could easily explain how the hair would take up those components and would show to be......high in one and low in another, but obviously blood tests are the best way to do it. Did you have any particular reason for testing your hair or was this just curiosity? No, I am working with a functional nutritionist and I've had the Dutch hormone testing done previously and I've had some...... answers for blood tests and there's been a lot of good results in the test results. I am working with a functional nutritionist and I've had the Dutch hormone test done previously and......there's been a lot of good results in the test results. Did you have any particular reason for testing your hair or was this just curiosity? Stool sampling done and so as we progressed kind of trying to figure out the puzzle pieces of my symptoms, this was another, this test was recommended by her. Do you feel like you want to talk about what it was you were looking for help for? Oh sure, yeah. Basically a couple years ago I started having symptoms of hypoglycemia which I still have. Now. And how old are you? I'm 46. Okay, carry on, sorry. Yeah, so I've had that. I've had basically increased weight gain during these last couple years. I've gained probably about 40 pounds. I have changed my diet significantly. That was obviously a big problem for me but my diet is very... I follow a lot of Dr. Pete's recommendations. My practitioner follows his work. So I've done a lot of those changes and everything but basically I have hypoglycemia. I have problems with anxiety. My inflammation marker is very high. And then like I said, the weight gain and my hormones indicate I have high cortisol. So those are all kind of things that we've been trying to work on. Okay. Dr. P, hypoglycemia with high cortisol and weight gain. And anxiety. And anxiety, yeah. Vitamin D and calcium and thyroid are likely involved. Vitamin D, calcium and thyroid. Have you had your vitamin D measured? Do you know what that is? Yes. The most recent one I've had done, I want to say it was around 50-ish. Okay, that's good. Then the amount of calcium in your diet works with both thyroid and vitamin D to keep your metabolic rate up and your blood sugar steady. Okay. Two grams a day of calcium is a good level. Do you drink any milk or do you take calcium supplement? I don't take a calcium supplement, but I do drink milk and I do eat high quality dairy. How much milk do you drink? Well, I've increased that per Dr. Pete. For me, probably about 16 ounces and I'm drinking 2% milk. I think twice that much of 1% would be better. Two quarts of what? Ski under 1% helps to lose weight because of the high calcium content. And you said about, like, what did you say on the ounces? From one quart to two quarts? Oh, okay, one to two quarts of, okay, more than 1%. Okay. And that tends to increase your temperature. And if your temperature doesn't rise......quickly in the morning when you get up and eat breakfast, if it doesn't get up to 98.6, a half hour after breakfast, then you're likely to need a thyroid supplement too. Yeah, I do do the temperatures and pulses, and I tend to have low temperatures. And then I did try some Nature Throid. Um a very like the like the lowest dosage. I forget the like quarter grain or something like that. But I started having um more negative effects with it. I started having like my anxiety was more increased and I sort of had to be like more aggressive like behavior like a real short fuse and that kind of stuff. So I quit taking that after about a month. But I'm One of the effects of thyroid is to make your cells able to retain the magnesium that they need. And if your diet doesn't have enough magnesium, and two quarts of milk would give you a generous supply of magnesium, which would make the thyroid able to work more quickly. Thank you. The normal function of thyroid is to increase your ability to relax both muscles and nerves. Okay. Okay, I appreciate your time. Thank you both so much. Yeah, you're welcome. Okay, so people want to call in number 707-923-3911. Dr Raymond Peats with us in the studio. Okay, so Dr. Peats, going back to the... Going back to the positive effects, and we've mentioned it's positive, it's only ever positive, but it's demonized in the industry in terms of treatments for lowering it. Cholesterol's effect is undoubtable in terms of regulating the system, regulating and supporting and stabilizing cells. Let me just... Okay, there's a caller on the line. Let's get this caller before we jump into this next question. Caller you're on the airway from? I'm from Minasino County. Okay, hi, what's your question? My question is that I was recently diagnosed with osteoporosis and I was wanting an alternative way to treat that. Yeah, how old are you? 62. 62. Okay, there's plenty of good ways to do this, but let Dr. Pete discuss it. Okay, Dr. Pete? Okay, keeping the parathyroid hormone under control is essential. And eating a lot of calcium, like two quarts of milk, and keeping your vitamin D serum level up to the middle of the range, like 50 mg per ml, that is a good basis. But if your thyroid hormone is low, then your prolactin will likely be... high enough that the prolactin itself has a bone weakening effect. Prolactin is normally the hormone of lactation, and it takes calcium out of the bone normally to put into milk, but under stress it causes calcium to be lost from the bone. And prolactin tends to rise. Along with thyroid-stimulating hormone and the simplest way to normalize prolactin is to normalize your thyroid function and keep your thyroid-stimulating hormone at the lower end of the normal range. Okay, how do you keep the thyroid? How do you do that? If you can't do it... Just with a selection of foods, then a supplement. A thyroid supplement? Yeah. Yeah. And I do not like milk, so is there something else that I can do to get calcium? Oh, well, cooked greens are the food that's richest, other than milk, in calcium relative to phosphate. But if you grind up egg shells, that's a good, pure form of calcium carbonate, which is next best to milk. OK, how many ground up egg shells do you do per day? Oh, a couple of grams would be good. OK. All right. Yeah, so you can just use your eggs. If you use eggs, you can just put them to one side. Gently wash out the membranes and stack them up for a week or so and then after a week you can put them on a baking tray and put them in the oven at about 150 and basically sterilize them that way and then put them in a coffee grinder and then they'll grind up very finely into a fine powder. I do have some people who use these kind of approaches to calcium rather than pills and capsules that do say that best taken with food can irritate some people's stomachs. But it's a very clean way especially if we're using organic eggs to get a good quality calcium carbonate and it's almost all calcium so 2000 milligrams a day is what Dr. Pete said so two grams it's about it's about three one-eighth teaspoons I think I think an eighth teaspoon is 650 odd milligrams. Okay yeah so if you don't drink milk or eat cheese or get lots of cooked greens and you are calcium calcium lean then that's obviously going to work against you but can I quickly ask you what kind of menstrual history you had. I went to menopause at early age at 45. 45 yeah all right I just I've just spoken to a lot of women who have either had hysterectomies and very poor hormone replacement approaches done or have had really bad menstrual cycles and been very high estrogen. And a lot of these women show very early osteopenia in their 40s and then bordering osteoporotic by 50 it's not what you want you really want to address this and vitamin D and calcium and thyroid are going to be the best least invasive and certainly most tolerable approach to dealing with your osteoporosis because you're only young and you know hopefully you're going to live quite a while longer and it's going to it's not going to get any better if you don't address it. Unopposed cortisol is another bone dissolving hormone. And what is that? Cortisol if it's even in the higher part of the normal range in a morning test if it isn't balanced with the adrenal DHEA and progesterone and other adrenal steroids that can contribute to osteoporosis and supplementing progesterone and DHEA and or pregnenolone can oppose that effect of cortisol. Okay. All right. Thank you very much, Dr. Pete. Okay, good. So the number if you live anywhere on the planet and you'd like to ask Dr. Pete a question during this evening's call. Ending at eight o'clock here with seven zero seven nine two three three nine one seven zero seven nine two three three nine one one. So Dr. Pete, just getting back to cholesterol for a little bit. In terms of what has been so popularized and so treated with statins, cholesterol's positive effects I think are just beginning to come to pass, you know, and I think it's a little bit like a sea change that's occurred with the... whole perpetration of polyunsaturate supposedly being good for you and saturated fats being bad for you which is I think now, at last, finally seeing the light of day and I'm reading reports on the internet, I'm not saying the internet is the only sole source of any information but seeing some good articles coming out about how that is just so and you've been talking about it for 40 years or more and I'm sorry that it's taken. So long for everybody, you know, including us 10 years ago, we're still thinking that way it was but I'm also starting to see some good articles that have been written expounding the benefits of cholesterol and just outlining in very plain simple layman terms just how beneficial cholesterol is and why it's so important and that the whole LDL-HDL thing is a complete myth. And there are actually a lot more studies showing that some of these oxidized LTL particles are probably more responsible for the inflammatory initial insult on the endothelia of the vessels that then causes cholesterol to be laid down as a repair mechanism which during dissection of a cadaver who's died of a heart attack, for example, they'll say oh that's it, they say here's the cholesterol which blocked the arteries that's why he's dead. when actually all the time again you've always said it's the initial insult from things like lipoflushkin or other oxidative byproducts of lipid metabolism that have caused initial insult but in terms of the brain and the brain's functioning so cholesterol is i can't we can't really can't really state enough just how important it is to have adequate cholesterol and that low cholesterol is virtually unspoken about people you find it very hard to find any information regarding low cholesterol because no one's looking that way and I wonder just how many people actually present with a blood test and their doctor saying oh your cholesterol is great you know whenever I've had blood work done and my cholesterol is probably 120 at the moment it's always wow your cholesterol is great and I'm thinking no it's not it's nowhere near high enough you know and I know you've always said that you should be about 200 so a cholesterol of 120 is obviously not good for me. But yeah it's not at all influenced by diet and in terms of your body will make cholesterol out of just about anything. Yeah okay there's a caller on the end let's get this caller. I call you yeah where are you from? My name is John and I'm 78 over the last year or maybe a little more I guess my PSA has gone up precipitously from four to five to twenty okay and I wonder if there's any supplements that can help me drive that down yeah Dr. P it's probably not in isolation for this but this person's PSA is 20 now um I think everything anti-inflammatory is the right approach a diet low in phosphate is a very basic anti-inflammatory thing and so I'm gonna hang up. The cooked greens, cheese, milk, and eggs are anti-inflammatory foods keeping your thyroid function up so that you're... Your liver is helping to balance your hormones, keeping estrogen down, adequate protein, a good calcium-phosphate ratio, and a fairly high normal body temperature is important....to lower inflammation and to keep the ratio of estrogen low. Do you think, Dr. Peat, from an herbal medicine perspective, the kind of rationale of using aromatase inhibitors from things like nettle root or using the sterols from saw palmetto might be anti-estrogenic, and that's how that could be a rationale for treating......prostatic hypertrophy. Do you think prostatic hypertrophy is down to estrogens as much as anything else? Yeah. Estrogen is a growth and carcinogenic factor in the prostate. Right. And as men get older, their estrogen no doubt rises, especially as testosterone is on the decline. Yeah. And the men who live the longest with prostate cancer have the highest testosterone. What? The men that live the longest with prostate cancer have the highest testosterone. Yeah. So in that, okay, yeah, so the testosterone in that point then is kind of protective, huh? Yeah. And in the early 90s when they started using the PSA test as a diagnosis of prostate cancer, the mortality from prostate cancer... took a huge surge upward and some of the doctors noticed that and decided maybe it wasn't a good idea to diagnose prostate cancer. Right because a lot of the times you have said this quite a few times before now but a lot of the times it can. I'm not advocating people just don't do anything about a supposed cancer marker that is you know possibly treatable especially from a medical perspective. But you've mentioned quite a few times that people found in the mortuary, they've just died from some other cause and they've been found with a wide range of different cancers that hasn't been the thing that's killed them, or they've been found with prostate enlargement and or you know a benign type dysplastic prosthetic inflammation. A couple of studies found that a hundred percent of people who died at the age of 50 or more... All of them had diagnosable cancer or something. So the best thing for you, talking about what Dr. Pete's been mentioning, if you can obviously maintain physical activity in terms of keeping your testosterone as high as you can from being a male, that's certainly very protective and anti-estrogenic. Estrogen being one of those... hormones that rises in males especially in males that are obese or you know they have more fat than is good for them especially because that tissue tends to accumulate and or produce estrogen in its own right and then there are two herbs that I know there's more than that but the two that come to mind instantly are things like nettle root as an aromatase inhibitor and that has an effect blocking estrogen and then the saw palmetto extract. There's lots of information about alternative medicines for enlarged prostate but I think obviously keeping an eye on your PSA in conjunction with using some of those herbs that have been used for prosthetic enlargement and making sure that your estrogen is being opposed by testosterone and getting exercise. There you go. And aspirin is certainly something that's very well tolerated, very inexpensive and very easily to get hold of. Okay, we do have one more caller on the air, so let's get this next caller. Caller, you're on the air, where are you from? What's your question? I'm in Humboldt in Redway. Okay. My question is how can I get off Celexa? Okay. We had a very similar question last month about a lady who called in. Yeah, on SSRIs and wanted help with that, so in terms of dose, have you ever tried reducing the dose of this and then slowly withdrawing from it? I would be willing to try that, yeah. It's one, I mean, Dr. P, in terms of withdrawing, we talked about this last month, so in terms of withdrawing from an SSRI, it's not to be done unsupported. But you mentioned last month that there's plenty to do in terms of supporting the physiology with thyroid, with other positive lifestyle diet changes that basically will allow a person to slowly taper off of an SSRI and not be basically overloaded with this product serotonin. One of their effects......tends to increase the stress hormones and so an anti-stress program. I've known people to withdraw from several different addictive things including the SSRIs using progesterone and coffee and thyroid and a good high-calcium diet, for example. How long have you been using it for? Many years. Thank you for watching. There's certainly scope there for lifestyle changes, but as Dr. Peet's mentioned, you know, in terms of anti-stress things, there are certainly components that in your diet are anti-stress and that support your thyroid and are anti-inflammatory and decrease the quote-unquote stress, which is on, you know, on... One of those, like, lifestyle changes that, like, go out and run or walk every day. No, we're not running for sure, but in terms of gentle weight-bearing exercise and walking and reading and being in the sunlight, you know, or in a bright room, making sure you've got exposure to that good red light, etc., etc., especially in the winter now. We're coming with, you know, long nights and short days and the whole seasonal affective disorder being a fairly widespread thing in this part of the world, as thyroid gets low as the winter's coming. There's thyroid hormone and then there's opposing your estrogen as a female, which undoubtedly will have a beneficial effect. And keeping up vitamin D. Yeah. Hormone replacement therapy. No, not a big advocate of hormone replacement therapy. Well, the only hormone would be progesterone to oppose your estrogen. But if you're on any kind of hormone replacement that's estrogen based, then you really don't want to be doing that. It's completely... not what you're going to hear from your doctor perhaps, you know, or maybe some naturopath who's a little more current. Yeah, I don't even have a clock in front of me. What time is it, Michael? I guess it's that time. I'm afraid we've got to... Gentle music for you. Yeah, I mean, you've got a minute to say goodbye to Dr. Pete. All right, thank you so much, Dr. Pete, for joining us. Okay, thank you. Okay, if that lady wants to contact us any time afterwards, basically you can just email me. My email address is andrew.westernbotanicalmedicine.com. So yeah, go ahead and email me. I'll respond to your email next week when I get back in the office on Monday. Okay, so for those who've listened, thanks for joining in the show. The same third Friday of next month, December. And for those people who've listened to Dr. Pete, want to find out more about him, www.raypeat.com. He's got plenty of well-written articles that are fully backed up by studies that you can just go ahead and look at on the internet. So people want alternatives, they want some hope, definitely a good thing to have, and very positive. There's lots of alternatives, so you don't have to be forced down one particular way to do something. Anyway, until next month. Oh, I just wanted to mention that in January, Sarah will be back. So for all those people, all those people who keep saying, where's Sarah? Where's Sarah? Anyway, thanks so much for joining. Until next month.