 vào be doittttttttttttttttt interpreted by Oh some music Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah-Johanneson Murray. For those of you who perhaps have never listened to our shows, which run every third Friday of the month from 7-8pm, we're both licensed medical herbalists who trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. We run a clinic in Garbleville where we consult with clients about a wide range of conditions and recommend herbal medicines and dietary advice. So you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMU-D Garbleville 91.1fm. and from 7 30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call in with any questions either related or unrelated to this month's subject which is a continuation of a previous topic on nitric oxide and its current trend or rather the current trends in nitric oxide that have come around the last year or two both in the sports industry specifically for muscle building for male performance enhancement for want of a better phrase and also by the medical community but there's a lot of very recent research from 2013 to present 2015 research showing that nitric oxide is actually a very negative product even though we do produce it naturally has some very wide ranging damaging effects and Dr Pete's research on nitric oxide in his newsletter that I think is going to be producing next month will detail in a lot of detail will show in a lot of detail rather a lot of the research that's supporting what we're going to talk about tonight so nitric oxide has many implications for many different conditions from rheumatoid arthritis to diabetes generalized inflammation and old age but there'll be some specifics that we'll bring out in the show and so they'll for those people that are listening tonight If you have any of the conditions that are associated with nitric oxides increase in the body, then this will be an interesting show for you and We'd love you to call in to share your experiences. So dr. Peter you with us. Yes. Okay. Well, thanks so much for your time again For those people who perhaps have never heard the show or who perhaps may not have heard of you I would you just describe your academic and professional background and then we'll get going on the subject. Um, I did my master's degree in humanities at University of Oregon and then went back years later in biology for a Ph.D. and intended to study brain biology but quickly shifted to reproductive aging physiology. So I concentrated on the biochemistry of the steroid hormones in relation to aging largely. Okay, so I guess I think I just opened up the show by just demonstrating some of the things that if people were to search online and be, for want of a better word, a victim of bad advertising, what they would find out about nitric oxide. Unfortunately, the internet is rife with lots of untruths and misconceptions as well as very genuine and good research to counter. Some of the accusations but nitric oxide is what I've seen its main use or it's touted for is to help the immune system they mention it to be used to regulate blood pressure to improve sleep and then there's the things that it's mainly advertised for which is for endurance and strength for body building and sexual performance enhancing and also for helping gastric motility but so dr. Pete what given that we produce nitric oxide naturally it doesn't mean to say it's always a good thing like adrenaline too much of that's a bad thing but given that we produce it naturally what useful effect does it have and and why do they have so many negative effects when we get into what it is you know about nitric oxide and why we should avoid it and also why why do they count nitric oxide to be used for all those conditions when it isn't true. Where are they twisting the truth? My dissertation in 1972 focused on estrogen, but I saw that the effects of estrogen were indistinguishable from the effects of x-rays and aging and oxygen deprivation. And how that works is that it changes the......oxidative enzyme function, cytochrome oxidase. And it was known that smog produces nitric oxide. It wasn't known that it occurred naturally in the body until the late 80s. But the effects of nitric oxide in smog were known to inhibit or damage that same respiratory enzyme. And at the time I was studying estrogen, it was known that carbon monoxide and cyanide also blocked the effect of oxygen in the cell. And so no one really thought about what nitric oxide was doing to the cell except when they were exposed to a lot of smog. But as soon as... It was discovered that it was produced in the body. A series of publications over the next six or seven years, up until the late 90s, identified the harm that it did in the various tissues. For example, several papers clearly showed how inflammation or stress increasing nitric oxide. Damages the insulin producing cells in the pancreas and so it's a major cause of diabetes regardless of the particular person's history leading to the diabetes. So not only damaging the cells in the pancreas but they were seeing similar damage to every tissue they looked at which seems logical since it was a free radical. analogous to cyanide and carbon monoxide in its function in the cell but then someone noticed that nitric oxide causes vasodilation during arousal and erection and Viagra came on the scene with tremendous amount of funding for research this is about 15 years ago now is it all yeah 97 I think okay and suddenly all of the bad stuff was forgotten and everyone wanted to find out the wonder curative effects of the drug that could improve virility similarly and very soon after it came out I started hearing from people who were suffering things such as diabetes from taking out of the virility pills. And that got me interested in it very, very early after the Viagra came on the market. But it was fitting right into the things that I was already interested in. There's quite a positive association, isn't there, between cardiac arrest and Viagra's use? I think it's a... I think it's killed quite a few people at this point in time. Well it's probably killing more people than are being identified because nitric oxide is produced in any stressed cell or tissue and it decreases the function of the tissue by blocking the energy production. So it creates a vicious circle in the same way. Too much estrogen can, or stress of any sort can start a cycle of energy loss, increased production of the stress mediators, including nitric oxide, exciting the tissue, blocking the energy of the tissue, and leading the cell to die. So all these things that they're touting......nitric oxide are good for, is there any thread of truth to these statements? Of the things you mentioned, it actually does one of those things which is to make muscles grow. But that's one of the things that Santergi and Otto Warburg understood 50 years ago. Is that because of his inflammation? In the absence of oxygen. Life can't do anything but grow and divide. And so anything that blocks the cytochrome c oxidase, blocking oxidative metabolism, tends to stimulate cell diffusion because that's all life can do on the lactic acid producing cycle. And experiments... both with nitric oxide supplement or creating the conditions such as cutting off the blood supply to cause muscle tissue to produce its own excess nitric oxide. They found that it stimulated the multiplication of cells in the muscle. The satellite cells surrounding the muscle fiber itself... multiply under the influence of nitric oxide or simply hypoxia leading to lactic acid production. So it's a very inflammatory process even though they're describing it as something that is wonderful. You'll increase your muscles if you take supplements that are precursors for nitric oxide production. Yeah, they found that you could cause muscle enlargement and growth just by putting a tourniquet on. If you combined mild exercise with a tourniquet occasionally. Because of the oxygen deprivation? Yeah, really big muscle growth from injuring it. But that's the basic thing that cells divide like cancer when they don't have the energy to do what they should do. So it's a kind of negative response to that stimulation then? Yeah, so... Anytime you injure a tissue, whether it's in the brain or heart or blood vessel, pancreas, whatever, there are stem cells. The satellite cells and muscles are probably just the local stem cell which might be replenished from bone marrow, for example, but anyway they function as stem cells. So anytime a tissue is injured, the lack of... Oxygen temporarily stimulates multiplication of stem-like cells which have the potential of regenerating the tissue. So it's a natural process that that would happen to stimulate cell growth but they're twisting it and saying that it's something good that it increases muscle growth. Well it's always a local more or less microscopic process when it's natural but if you flood the system... hoping to grow all of your muscles bigger, then you're also providing it to your brain, immune system, gonads, everything is being in effect deprived of oxygen. So drugs that increase nitric oxide would be classed as carcinogens then? In fact, yeah, that's starting to be recognized. It's a very basic factor in promoting cancer. Development, growth and spreading. grad that's 1-800-568-3723. Getting back to some of the things that they say nitric oxide supplements are beneficial for, and actually it's never the nitric oxide that you get in a capsule or a tablet anyway, is it? It's the precursor, it's the amino acid precursor that nitric oxide is manufactured from. Is there any truth to the... vasodilatory the diet that the artery dilating effects that would supposedly help people with blood pressure i mean is that just completely erroneous science too oh no it does that nitric nitroglycerin was used for a long time to open up a heart artery and you do increase the flow of blood by relaxing the arterioles and the trouble is that the if you increase it beyond a temporary dilation it's going to start the damaging process of increasing collagen formation and cell multiplication and so on so that you can get a momentary effect from sniffing nitroglycerin for example as a chronic thing or a systemic thing it's not at all good in fact it ages in a chronic situation for example for your intestine is being irritated irritable bowel syndrome for example or just mild digestive problems you absorb both nitric oxide and endotoxin and these the endotoxin increases the production of nitric oxide everywhere and in the blood vessels the increased and chronic effect of nitric oxide is to promote thickening and atherosclerosis and hardening of the arteries So, in fact, it's actually going to be worsening the condition you're taking it for, if you're taking it for blood pressure or... Yeah, the momentary effect over minutes or hours can be helpful. Like, if you have a constricted area, the relaxation locally in that particular artery opens up unless the blood keeps flowing. But... If, when you do that systemically, all you're doing is adding to the chronic inflammation, stress, and degeneration of the arteries, heart, and all the other organs. So the body should be producing a little bit of nitric oxide in that constricted artery, is what you're saying? Yes. When you take it... When you have a local, like a pinch of an artery, the......cells sense that they aren't getting enough oxygen, and in reaction to the stress, if nitric oxide is produced locally, opens it up, lets the blood through the stress point. So it's like a local regulatory process, and it shouldn't ever be a systemic, generalized process for treating high blood pressure, for example. It's like when someone takes nitroglycerin. Um, yeah, all it's doing is......releasing a momentary pinch in the heart, which could be good, I guess, for the heart, but systemically, it's, for example, one of the things that it does is to increase aldosterone, the adrenal salt regulating steroid that produces inflammation and fibrosis as a side effect. OK, now, aldosterone is also implicated for blood pressure regulation, isn't it? Yeah, too much aldosterone and you get high blood pressure. So the side effect of chronic nitric oxide can be exactly the opposite of what they're promoting. Oh, my goodness. Let me just outline for people that are listening that... And I may be wrong here. I usually find information and or have some previous knowledge information that you uncover fairly often to be incomplete or actually not quite correct, but in terms of nitric oxide production, am I right in thinking that there are three major sites that the endothelia inside the vessel walls is one and then a neuronal synthase from nerve cells. And then there's the inducible form. Is that correct? Or is it there any other methods? Yeah, it's generally the inducible form, which can occur apparently in any cell, including nerves. In response to inflammation or damage or? Yeah, any stress seems to increase the inducible one. Because it made me think, excuse me, of a... The person who I was speaking with earlier, who had, amongst other things, one of the main symptoms that they had was inflammation of the kidneys, both of them. They had uretal obstruction, retrograde urinary flow backing up into the kidneys, producing a chronic, or rather an acute, kidney inflammation. What I read in one of the articles, on PubMed articles, was that the glomerulus, which is a functional unit of the kidney, was unique in that the vascular networks have the potential themselves to express several what they call isoforms of nitric oxide synthase, and can produce quite an amount of this in response to injury. And I was wondering, in terms of the realistic......inhibition of nitric oxide. I only found two compounds, one of them I found advertised by Sigma Aldrich, it's a fairly big, well it's one of the biggest I think in America, chemical firms that were charging a lot of money for a five micrograms, five milligrams sample. But the other one apparently is......almost as effective, but I think it has a slightly different mechanism, and that was Aminoguanidine. And that, if you look at that online, is actually sold as a blocker of the glycation process, whereby sugars and proteins form these glycation end products that are damaging. That was its first recognized effect, but it turns out it's achieving that by blocking... nitric oxide, which leads to the oxidation damage to all of the blood vessels. So is aminoguanidine as good? Because the other compound, it was... let me see, I have it, I had a note of it. Yeah, there's another one that's just a variation on aminoguanidine called agmatine, which is, it occurs in the foods, meat, fish, mushrooms, for example. Would you get enough of this product? No, it's probably helpful somewhat. The weight lifters who were using nitric oxide to puff up their muscles heard something about agmatine and they started using it. Then the word went around that it's inhibiting nitric oxide, so I think there's some... Do you think that using aminoguanidine as a competitive inhibitor of nitric oxide would be a reasonable approach to a kind of systemic inflammation that you'd find, say, in rheumatoid arthritis patients? I think it probably is, but I think there are safer things that have been studied more. Aminoguanidine has been known chemically for over 100 years, I think. But it just hasn't been researched as a medical treatment enough that I would feel very confident of that, but the safest inhibitors happen to be niacinamide, which has two or three different routes for inhibiting it, aspirin, which has two or three at least. Direct and indirect ways of inhibiting it are progesterone, which is partly acting by blocking estrogen's increase of nitric oxide. Interesting, because you mentioned niacinamide, and this is the compound that I remember you talking about most for lowering blood sugar in diabetics or type 2 diabetic patients. Yeah, it does just about everything protective. It protects nerve cells against nitric oxides, damaging effects. And one other pretty safe inhibitor is methylene blue. Okay, yeah, I'm starting to see more of that compound come up on PubMed articles for quite a few different approaches to disease. I don't know, at this point in time, I remember seeing that also as a chemical that was advertised on Sigma Aldrich's website. I don't think it was too expensive either. So, methylene blue would certainly be a reasonable approach. If somebody had chronic inflammation, that would most likely be due to excessive nitric oxide production in that tissue. Yeah, at first I would try it. Aspirin, niacinamide and progesterone as the most physiological. What kind of doses do you think would be a reasonable suggestion for somebody who wanted to try either niacinamide or aspirin? Well, aspirin, if you take vitamin K, is safe up to several grams a day, but usually with two doses of 500 milligrams you get... pretty good systemic protection. And vitamin K, incidentally, is in several ways helping to hold down nitric oxide production. And then how about niacinamide? It's probably safe up to a thousand milligrams a day, but I've only had experience seeing people take about three or four doses of 125 milligrams. Each dose, so a total of two to five hundred milligrams a day can do really dramatic things for curing nerve degeneration and such. Okay, all right, we've got our first caller here, so let's take this first caller and see where we're going with this one. Caller, you're on the air? Hi, I had a question. Yeah, go ahead. And where are you from? Um, yeah, I don't know. I just wanted to know if Dr. P. could briefly discuss what is cystic fibrosis and some practical strategies for overcoming that condition. Um, yeah, I've never worked with anyone that had it, except some people suspected they might have it, and it turned out they were just very hypothyroid. And, uh, the, um... function of the adrenals can cause you to leak chloride so that you have extreme saltiness of your skin, high chloride content, and that is often used to diagnose cystic fibrosis. But, um, just correcting the thyroid and adrenal function, the people that I've seen turned out not to have....cystic fibrosis, just a bad reaction to low thyroid function. Okay, thank you. Okay, thanks for your call. Okay, so the number here, if you live in the area, is 923-3911. If you're outside the area there's an 800 number, 1-800-568-3723. Okay, I think we have another caller on the air, so let's take the next caller. And where are you from, caller? Hi, this is Amy from New York. Amy from New York, welcome to the show. Thanks. Thanks for this excellent show. I had a couple questions for Dr. Pete. I'm studying a breathing method that's supposed to increase carbon dioxide levels, and they talk about always breathing through the nose. And I was worried a little about whether that would, you know, increase my nitric oxide levels, because you're always breathing through the nose. No, anything that irritates your membranes will cause, if you get a runny nose from something you ate, for example, that increases the nitric oxide in your nose. So you want to avoid inflammatory things in your food or atmosphere, because you do get......local and systemic nitric oxide from any inflammatory thing, but breathing through your nose itself doesn't contribute anything to that local production. Oh, okay. The idea... Sorry? When you breathe through your nose, especially if you have a good long nose, you have better retention of carbon dioxide. The......dead space between the air sac in your lung and the outside world. Some of the Buteco people breathe through about an 8-inch tube to extend the pathway, but the idea of having a good long nose is that that extends the dead space so that you keep a higher concentration of CO2. Mmm. Okay. I find snorkeling does this same thing. What does? Snorkeling. Snorkeling? Oh. Because you're extending your, your nose. Swimming underwater, just holding your breath. I had, I, oh sorry, I had one more question for you, but it's off topic, but. Go ahead. Um. I think that you mentioned that it often takes about four years or even longer to get rid of the unsaturated fat stored, stores in the body. Well, that's for a complete exchange, but you can see a decrease as soon as you change your diet, but it's gradual over a period of years. Yeah. And we, um, we do have a preference to burn saturated fat. I understand, because it's a better, a cleaner burning fat, but you mentioned a study that found that the pigs that wore sweaters, they ended up with larger stores of saturated fats than the pigs that weren't wearing sweaters. Yeah. A biochemist actually did that, and it's just a demonstration that... The production of unsaturated fats is a defense against cold because saturated fats harden at low temperature. And so if you grow corn or soybeans in the tropics where it's always 85 to 95 degrees, they'll produce fairly saturated fats. And fish in the Amazon River have close to the saturation of butter in their fat. But do you think that that's a viable strategy for people, for example, in cold climates? That they want to lose as much of their stored unsaturated fats as quickly as they can? Would that be a safe way to...? Keeping your arms and legs warm is very important for your systemic metabolism, but the pig fat... was basically deriving from a starting corn or soy fat and the pigs if they're cold extend it to make the highly unsaturated long chain with five or six unsaturated bonds rather than two or three and so you you're when you synthesize Unsaturated fats from sugar or starch they're going to be pretty safe Omega minus nine fats based on the mean acid Which are much less? unstable than the fish oil type I See so it changed It changed what what was stored the new stored fat, but it didn't change the burning fat burning preference on those the existing fat stores. Keeping your body temperature up does help you oxidize fat safely. And that when you said that about the cold pigs having much worse fat stores, it reminds me of have you heard of this brown fat and these guys that they they go into freezers and take cold showers and things and and they try to increase their stores of brown fat and what the reason they do that is it burns off all of their white fat i mean yeah the the um i think keeping your thyroid function up is better because the cold activates a variety of stress hormones that cause some side effects besides just getting rid of the fat To oxidize your fats while at rest by having a good resting metabolic rate and high body temperature is the safest way to handle them rather than increase the stress to increase the fat burning. OK. Well, thank you very much. You're welcome. I think we have another caller on the line, so. Let's take this next caller and find out where you're from caller. Hi, I'm from Madison, Wisconsin. Okay, welcome to the show. What's your question? Um, my first question was that I've been taking T4. It's working really well for me, but I get some eye pain sometimes in the process of titrating it. Say that again. I didn't hear that part. Oh, um, I get some eye pain in the process of titrating T4. Some eye... I didn't hear that... Eye pain. Oh, you're saying you got some eye pain? Yeah, I'm sorry about that. Okay, so what was your question? Whether or not that was normal or whether that was... Yeah, it's just a normal part of the titration process. Now, when you say titration, do you mean you've just taken small doses, gradually increasing the dose, or...? Yeah, I started on, like... Probably, like, seven micrograms. And I'll go from seven and then up to twelve, and I responded really well to it, but it seems like I get a little bit of eye pain. Now, this is... we're talking about T3 now? Oh, I'm sorry, T4. T4, I beg your pardon. OK. So, Dr. P, as a very small amount of T4, the callers are asking whether or not you've ever heard of any relationship to eye pain. No, I haven't. But I would back off on the T4. If your liver isn't effectively converting it to T3, it can have an antithyroid effect by accumulating, turning off your pituitary, and your liver normally is where you get most of your active thyroid hormone. So if your liver isn't doing that... you can accumulate so much T4 it has stress activating actions. Do you think it would be better for this person if they wanted to try the active hormone? Yeah, I think it's always better to use the combination in the traditional way or if you're for some reason in a hurry or think you have a very bad liver, then small amounts of the active T3. You have a lot of problems with doctors prescribing that T4 is that when someone is low thyroid and they take T4 their livers usually aren't active enough to convert the T4 into the active because T4 on its own doesn't have any action at all, it doesn't do anything, it has to be converted to T3 and if you take enough T4 you're going to turn off your brain's production of stimulating the thyroid gland which naturally produces about... 1 part T3 to 4 parts T4. So that's why taking a natural glandular ratio of 1 to 4 of T3 to T4 is what Dr. Pete's recommending. In the 1940s when drug companies synthesized thyroxin, they tested it on male medical students and said it worked just like real thyroid. That's T4, thyroxin. Yeah, T4. But the thing is that... Women with high estrogen compared to men always have a more sluggish liver and women are the ones who especially the 25 year old medical students seldom have liver problems but a 40 year old female very often has a more sluggish liver so that Iroxin or T4 is very often causing problems in women. Right, because the estrogen they are subject to at that age has a competitive inhibition. And actually the T4 can make people's problems, low thyroid people's problems even worse if they don't convert it into T3. It actually increases adrenaline and makes the person feel worse than they did before they took it. And one of the effects of good thyroid function is to lower nitric oxide. Nitric oxide, contrary to the advertising, can increase pressure inside your eye. And so hypothyroidism can create enough nitric oxide to cause symptoms such as hardening of the eye, increasing the pressure. That's interesting. So I was wondering, like, maybe... Maybe I was switching over from cortisol to thyroid, and maybe my eye was running low on energy or something. I couldn't understand... The caller said that he was switching, he was coming off of cortisol and trying to go on to thyroid, and he was wondering if his eye was running out of energy. Well, cortisol increases the pressure in the eye. So it's possible that... You were still producing too much cortisol relative to the protective pregnenolone, progesterone and such. Interesting. I had another question. Is that okay? Yeah, go ahead. I was wondering what percentage of popular lab tests are fraudulent or useless? I had a I had a TSH test done, and I was taking thyroid, and I stopped for like a week before the test. And my doctor said that my TSH was normal, but when I went off the thyroid, I started getting like boils on my scalp and other problems. And I was curious how many of the tests out there are, kind of, don't have very much value. Well, I think the main problem is that doctors are taught that the TSH normal range....is something like 0.4 to 5.0, but that number has been decreasing. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists has lowered it to 0.3 to 3.0. And a population of healthy people without thyroid cancer or other thyroid problems, they averaged 0.4 TSH. or less without taking a high-range supplement meaning that meaning that if you're anything over one or one and a half or getting anywhere closer to two you definitely seem like you uh would benefit from using the hormone um yeah yeah i was um i think i was like at 3.7 or something yeah that would that would be outside of the range according to uh the uh lowered revised uh figures that have been issued And isn't it correct, Dr. Pete, that while someone might be taking T4 and not really converting it much to T3, their TSH would still lower? Yeah, and the stress hormones will lower it too. So you can't really diagnose anything by TSH alone, even though that's how most doctors do it. Especially when someone who's low thyroid, they're usually running on excess adrenaline, and if excess adrenaline will lower the TSH and give you a false positive, then......or false negative. And high cortisol lowers it, and also at the same time causes the liver to turn thyroxin into reverse T3, which interferes even more than thyroxin with the active T3 function. It blocks the real T3 from actually doing anything. Okay. That's interesting. All right. Well, thank you. Do you have anything else to say? I'm sorry. I'm going to cut you off. Oh, well, are his books still available? Dr. Pete? They have been converted to electronic form and we're going to figure out how to make them available really soon. Electronically. Okay, great. Well, I just wanted to say thank you very much, Dr. Pete, and also thank you to our doctors very much. I appreciate it a lot. You're very welcome. You're welcome. Thank you for your call. OK, so I'll ask the engineer, do we have anyone else on hold at the moment? No, OK. So the number here if you live in the area is 923 3911, or if you're outside the area and want to use a toll-free number, that's 1800 568 3723. We're talking with Dr Raymond Peat today about nitric oxide and its popular use for bodybuilding and for male enhancement, amongst other things, and how damaging nitric oxide is and how much. Information and research there is to show that actually it's probably more carcinogenic than anything else. Talking along the lines of a carcinogen, I saw articles that were demonstrating that nitric oxide was responsible for damaging DNA and that's how they could directly implicate it in being a carcinogen. Yeah, just several years ago, radiation biologists were seeing that... Cells which were hit by x-rays or gamma rays emitted something which would cause apparent radiation damage in the neighborhood. So you could take the irradiated cells out of the culture dish, put new cells in, and they acted as if they had been irradiated. And nitric oxide has turned out to be a major transmitter of that effect. So it's... Like you're being irradiated, you do produce a lot of nitric oxide and it spreads to adjoining cells. So anything that starts the inflammation tends to spread the nitric oxide, which not only breaks the strands of DNA, but it also changes the methylation. So the whole control system for expressing DNA... in your chromosomes is altered under chronic excess of nitric oxide. Okay, hold it there a moment, Dr. Peake, because the light's flashing away. I think we've got one person on hold and another caller coming in. So let's start by taking this next caller. And caller, where are you from? Say that again now? Where are you from, caller? The what? Where are you calling from? Eureka. Okay, go ahead. We've got your question. I've just probably covered this before, but I wanted to know what alternative to blood pressure medicines. Okay. If you look at the symptoms of chronic hypothyroidism, hypertension is one of the prominent things. A very large proportion of the people who think they have a high blood pressure problem. are simply hypothyroid. The TSH itself, which rises when you're hypothyroid, even within the normal range, it's increasing your various stress hormones and increasing your blood pressure. So TSH is a pro-inflammatory factor and one of the factors causing hypertension. So you want to keep that low just for general health. So caller you could ask your doctor for a test of TSH and if it's above 0.4 then perhaps you can think about taking a thyroid supplement. Okay I think we have another caller on the line so let's take this next caller. Caller where you from? Is that I? Hi you're on the air where you from? Garberville. Garberville go ahead what's your question? I wanted to know the name of your... practice and the telephone number oh okay well let's give that out at the end of the show oh you won't be giving it out until the end of the show yeah let's not spend the time on that now we'll wait till all right i'll hang on thank you okay thank you so uh i don't know if anybody else uh on the line uh we did have one person call in and ask uh just not to be on the air but about copd uh he was diagnosed and had just any all right information dr p chronic obstructive pulmonary disease there was a caller who left a message with the engineer um as an inflammatory or a uh fibrotic or fibrous type uh inflammation how do you how do you see that the etiology of it or the treatment i've known several people who had it one of my friends who was in his 80s when i visited him in taluka 8500 feet altitude he was blue in the face and just panting sitting down and didn't recognize me his brain wasn't getting enough oxygen and I gave his daughter some pregnenolone progesterone and thyroid to give to him a little bit every day when I came back two weeks later he was back at work up in his upper floor office without an elevator and took me around the city making me pant. Just a dramatic improvement in oxygen absorption in his lungs. Is that how you would see that plausibly being a mechanism by which someone could be uh could regain their breath again? Yeah. High estrogen and nitric oxide are two things that can cause a leakage of fluid into the air sacs and a thickening of the pathway between the air and the capillary so that the air just has to the oxygen has to pass through such a thick layer it just isn't getting to the blood at a high enough concentration and so that can a pregnenolone alone seems to sometimes very quickly improve oxygenation and what would be a good recommended starting dose for pregnenolone and progesterone and thyroid for someone with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease well with thyroid you want to start very slowly because it increases your need for oxygen as well as improving the lung function so it's good to start with pregnenolone I think which doesn't have any hormonal effect it does help to prevent edema and swelling of the membranes and the dose of pregnenolone doesn't really matter you just don't want to take such a big dose that you're getting additives and contaminants so 15, 20, 30 milligrams is often a therapeutic dose but it's okay to take 100 or 300 milligrams if you know the stuff is clean right okay with progesterone same thing 10 to 30 milligrams can make a big difference. I wanted to ask you the question about the relationship between antibiotics and not the latest and greatest antibiotics but specifically minocycline I saw some articles on PubMed again demonstrating that it lowered the inducible form of nitric oxide and the and cytokines are the pro-inflammatory. What do you think about minocycline? For several years it's been recognized as a helpful factor for Alzheimer's disease and other brain problems. Is that just because it's blocking the endotoxin production? It blocks the nitric oxide production. Directly blocking the nitric oxide production? Yeah, directly blocks the enzyme the way niacinamide does. Wow. Okay, and then I saw another article again for another old-fashioned antibiotic, tetracycline. What do you know about tetracycline? It's in the same family, oxycycline, tetracycline and minocycline. And tetracycline. The only problem with it is that it's too cheap. So doctors are not educated to... So I wonder if cascara would have a similar effect because it has anthracanones that are very similar to the tetracycline. Yeah, I think that structure is what's happening. We have another caller on the air here. So let's take this next caller. Caller, where are you from? Ukiah. Ukiah. Hi, what's your question? I was wondering if you guys could talk about the human growth hormone at all. Okay, in relation to anything particular? Well, like, some of my friends were talking about it, because they do weight lifting. They were talking about, like, it's a good thing to build your muscles. Yeah, same problem with nitric oxide, I think. So, Dr. Pete, what do you have to say to somebody who's using growth hormone? Well, you have... The same problems that you get from nitric oxide or estrogen. Women, surprisingly, chronically, during the reproductive years, have a high growth hormone chronically. And the growth hormone causes a breakdown of fat and the free fatty acids. So women, under the influence of estrogen, typically have a chronic exposure....free fatty acids, which is, if they're unsaturated, increases oxidative damage. And that's just a standard function of growth hormone, is to raise your free fatty acids. And that's probably why they see an increased thickness in the wall of blood vessels in the kidneys, which is causing a progressive... loss of kidney function from overexposure or chronic high exposure to growth hormone, and a suspicion that it increases the risk of diabetes, which free fatty acids aren't known to cause. So it's very inflammatory. Yeah, I think most of the... it's unfortunate, but it's like another cult, and unfortunately males... a little bit seduced by the potential of growing bigger muscles using anabolic steroids and other compounds, and so obviously growth hormone again is advertised very widely in bodybuilding magazines. What does anabolic mean? Muscle building, so it's the opposite of catabolism which is muscle breakdown, but it's unfortunate that most muscle bodybuilding magazines are reasonably rife with products that I know would not be... founded on science to be beneficial for you. It's unfortunate. And also the supplements that are touted to increase nitric oxide, people want to avoid those, like arginine and... Citrulline. Citrulline. Okay, we probably need to wrap up the show this evening anyway. Thanks for all the callers that have called in. Dr. P, as always, thanks so much for your time and your dedication. I really appreciate you joining us on the show. Okay, thank you. Okay, so I'll just spend the next couple of moments letting people know how they can get information from the website, either Dr. P's research articles or I think that one person there was talking about a book and I know that he said that recently here they've turned to an electronic form of the couple of books that he has written for sure. So his website is www.raypeat.com, R-A-Y-P-E-A-T, and he has lots of articles there that are fully referenced. And then the caller did call in about us. So yeah, our business name is Western Botanical Medicine, and we have an 800 number. Sarah, 1-888-W-B-M-ERB. Okay, I didn't know if you wanted to say that or not. Anyway, so we can be reached, you know, nine to five, Monday through Friday after the show. So until the next month, the third Friday of next month, I wish you a good night. It'll be more like... Fall, next month, it'll be dark when we arrive at the studio at 7 o'clock, and so as we wind our way into a gentle winter without any rain at this point, I wish you the very best and happy Halloween for that coming up here about in a week or so. Thank you for listening. Good night. Alright, it's 7.58. You just heard the herb doctor. That's on KMUD, Garberville 91.1, KMUE, Eureka 88.1, KLAI, Laytonville 90.3, Shelter Cove, you're at 99.5, and everyone else at KMUD.org. Support for KMUD comes from SolarWinds Northern Lights, Inc., a licensed, insured, bonded contractor specializing in the design, installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting of battery-based and grid-tied solar electric systems. And complete electrical services for homes, homesteads, and agriculture. More information is available from Chris 498-2804 or online at SolarWindsNorthernLights.com. And also support for KMUD comes from the Inn of the Lost Coast and Shelter Cove with fireplace, spa, and sauna suites overlooking the ocean and views of migrating California gray whales. Fishtank, Expresso, and Delgata Pizza and Bakery are open daily. More information available at 986-7521 or online at inofthelostcoast.com. All right 759 be uh going into winging a prayer maybe like a minute early here we go. Music Thank you.