 Well here we are again June the 21st 2019 another solstice. I think for some reason probably the third Friday of the month helps but seems to have been on quite a few solstice Fridays in the last 14 or 15 years so anyway yeah happy solstice to all you out there. Longest day of the year and things are getting warmer and warmer even though the days are gonna get shorter and shorter from here on in and hopefully the... imminent threat of war with the Middle East is not going to materialize any time in the foreseeable future, folks, so we can enjoy our lives and raise our children and try and live in peace. All right, so this is Ask Your Herb Doctor, the third Friday of every month from 7 to 8 p.m. This show runs as a live show, folks, and so from 7.30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock, you are invited, welcome to call in, hopefully with questions related to this month's topic. or a random loose topic around postpartum depression, steroid hormones, new drugs with dangerous consequences and all the other fun stuff that we bring up to light and as always Dr. Pete is going to bring his science-based wisdom to bear in on these subjects. So from 7 30 until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call in the questions either related or unrelated to that subject matter that I spoke of. And then... Yeah, we're always very pleased to get people from all over the world. It's kind of a fun thing when people call in from Australia, or they call in from, you know, somewhere in England or wherever. Anyway, the number here, if you'd like to call in from 7.30 on to pose any questions you have to Dr. Pete or myself, the number is area code 707 923 3911 and I can be reached at the end of the show or through... business hours monday through friday or anytime on the web either at the 888 number which is w b m urb so 1 888 w b m urb or you can email me andrew at westernbotanicalmedicine.com so once again we're very pleased to have dr pete on the radio show you there dr pete yes okay thanks so much for giving your time as you've done for many years now on this show and we really do appreciate it um okay so your latest newsletter on postpartum depression brain aging and reductionism uh continues uh along those lines and topics of the ongoing reductionism in science and how short-sighted that science is and linked to aging and the disease that some of these drugs are now causing that we'll get into later on with the obesity and alzheimer's and diabetes epidemic um so for those people perhaps who've never listened to the show before who maybe even haven't heard your name uh would you just outline your scientific and academic background for us before we start after a teaching a variety of subjects including linguistics and literature i decided to go to graduate school in biology and i got my phd in 1972 and i've been continuing to study mostly physiology and stress and aging since then okay and uh if people aren't aware of also you've spent a long time and you still do spend a lot of time emailing people about health related issues and that's pretty much what you've been working on for the last 40 years or so since you graduated yeah okay good so uh i after looking at your newsletter and uh formulating some questions for you based on it um just wanted to uh get a little bit of your um inside inside thought processes here when you've claimed or made the statements that you make um i think it's hard for sometimes for people to understand uh the things that you say because it's sometimes sim so counter well not sometimes but quite often it's fairly counter intuitive to all the brainwashing that we get daily from books magazines tv adverts etc and as the world becomes more homogenous and the internet links people more fluidly into this kind of cohesive organism um as you've always said you know william blake's quoted that a lie travels around the world quicker than truth can get her bootstraps on um but i wanted to just talk briefly about the product that has just been given fda approval uh this month called zureso uh also known as brexanolone or also known as allopregnanolone which we've mentioned in the past so naturally occurring metabolite uh of naturally produced progesterone but it's been used and given approval as an injection uh given over a 60 hour infusion in hospital to treat postpartum depression and it costs 34 000 dollars okay so uh why not simply use a 30 dollar bottle of progesterone or pregnenolone both of which quickly convert in the body to allopregnenolone and don't require extortionate hospitalization and drug costs further skyrocketing health insurance costs and drug manufacturer profits um what uh what what's your take on the reason that this drug has been given i guess firstly um fda approval uh for this condition which i'd like you to outline and i'm sure you will as the questions go on here in terms of the treatment of postpartum depression or why it occurs in the first place because i know you definitely have your own opinions for for that but why why allopregnanolol and then allopregnanolone and then why an infusion and now they're patenting previously what would have been classed as a natural product that women naturally produce and it's naturally converted to this substance this is a byproduct of metabolism If it was a natural therapy, it would be cheap and not patented and no one would make or hope to make several billion dollars a year from selling it. For the last 10 or 15 years, the FDA has acted as though it's in the business of creating monopolies. They did it with the sedative or semi-anesthetic drug OxyBate. Several years ago and it went from costing a few dollars for a bottle of it to thousands of dollars for a course of treatment. Because it's been patented and the company's been allowed to use this as their standard and it's been protected? Yeah, and after that they declared that quinine was a new drug and assigned a new drug. approval to one company and the since they depend on fees to approve the drugs a large part of their existence sees the money coming in from the drug as sustaining their existence and that if Doctors for example wants to use a quinine bark or a natural nutritional substance for a therapy and It happens to compete with one of these new drug assignments It's in effect the doctors attempting to break a monopoly and in some situations doctors are actually losing their licences for using traditional medical reasoning and avoiding the so-called evidence-based medicine. Right, which has become very popular, as a phrase, has become very popular in the last few years. I'd never heard of that up until probably 2014 or so when studies would say the evidence-based medicine. Things seem to be gearing up to using that as the new paradigm. Yeah, what they mean by evidence is a study that cost maybe $150 billion and not just any researcher has that money to test, for example, a particular nutrient or hormone to treat a disease. It constitutes good evidence in this new paradigm, the monopoly paradigm. It's a study that no one but the giant corporations can afford. And so the only drugs that have legal approval by the FDA are monopoly drugs. And the extent to which the state licensing boards......are putting pressure on doctors to conform and follow guidelines. In some situations, it's just getting ridiculous that they're telling doctors, for example, not to consider any of the traditional signs of hypothyroidism in treating hypothyroidism, but to go only by the TSH, to ignore all of the metabolic......unfunctional signs that are recognized for 200 years as hypothyroidism. There's a kind of communism, right, where there's only one......there's only one way. Um... Well, it's strictly monopoly capitalism. Maybe totalitarianism. Okay, right, well, communism for the pure... the pure definition of the word, maybe not, but it's a very dictatorial. Yeah, okay, so, you know, you can't produce these drugs unless you can afford to play, and when you do you get the monopoly and the payback keeps the system going and keeps the monopoly going in place. But to speak a little bit more about the evidence-based medicine and the kind of destructive nature of it, you've mentioned the fact that doctors no longer... can use reasoning and their brains, and I know them, I know some of them for sure, I don't know a lot of them, but I know some very well-intentioned doctors which are purely altruistic about what they want to do whilst, you know, studying medicine and when they're actually consulting with people, they really do have a genuine heart for the well-being of the patient, you know, and quite probably the Hippocratic oath to exist too in their prescribing, but in terms of a doctor using their reasoning, and this evidence may... evidence-based medicine paradigm being becoming something that is really in a place to inhibit and prohibit and punish reasoning. That's very dangerous. Yeah, in the newsletter I mentioned the movement to abolish the so-called basic science part of medical education the first two years where they actually study science. But just describe that a little too, you know, just for people to hear it because most people won't... subscribe to a newsletter and they probably won't understand, won't hear this. So, just speak a little bit about that, about the person who came up with this ridiculous statement and how, what it implies. Yeah, he has written articles pointing out that there have been over 350 reversals of traditional medicine done by these big gold standard corporate studies. And so he's seeming like a progressive, constructive person wanting to get truth into science. But he says that these big studies are the evidence that we have to take into account. And all we need is guidelines what to do, how to use these approved... well-documented, so-called scientific treatments. And if we have guidelines for all of the diseases, how to just follow a chart of reasoning laid out by the committees, government basically, for treating a disease. Everyone will treat the disease in the same way....becoming blind to the individual variations and their unique history. It's trying to reduce and abstract medicine to the point that no brain is necessary, only following guidelines. Right, you probably just need a simple flow chart, yes or no, if A plus B equals C go to D. Yeah. And if that's the case, then they don't need the first two years of medical school, because that's where they study the science. But the trouble, even with that reasoning, is that the sciences themselves, over the last hundred years, have been, all of the sciences related to medicine, have been powerfully invaded by the drug companies. So that physiology, neurology, and micronology, the kidney, heart, lung, brain, all of the systems of the body have had their understanding shaped by the reductionist ideal that one sickness can be defined for everyone and treated with a specific drug. 9-8-6, sorry, 9-2-3, gosh I'm making a few mistakes tonight, 7-0-7-9-2-3-3-9-1-1, I'm just too excited, and it is a solstice. You were giving us your phone number, in all fairness. Well, I gave you my phone number earlier. Alright, so Dr. Pete, getting back to this new drug that's just been patented, it's a metabolite of a naturally occurring product called allopregnalin, and given as an infusion, costs $34,000. Reminds me of the Harvoni-Salvaldi for hep C treatment, which is 90 something thousand, and I saw more, a genetic one, I saw one in England that just came out, it's $234,000 for the treatment, it's a new targeted antibody process where you individually send the patient's blood to a lab in North America, they basically just sequence it and they target the antibodies that they produce into the cell and send the blood back and the blood is then re-infused into the patient and they're saying that they're getting some fairly good results for lymphoma, but the side effects seem pretty dangerous. Anyway, sorry to digress a little, but so far as the allopregnalone and its infusion is concerned, why couldn't you just use pregnalone as a precursor or progesterone? Yeah, someone tested that and found that just a tiny dose of roll... progesterone 20 milligrams tripled the amount of allopregnalone in the body. 20 milligrams, right, so there's absolutely no reason not to use orally progesterone or pregnalone and if the sole purpose of treating patients, I guess, have been pre-identified as having post-pardon depression because they're still in the hospital, in this hospital situation. For a 60-hour infusion, that just seems, gosh, I don't know, it just seems like an expensive stay in a very expensive, you know, hotel, it's like a, I don't know, is this... Yeah, ordinary reasoning would say that if you want to increase the amount of allopragmental in the brain, why not take 20 milligrams of progesterone? See, I just don't think enough people know and as time goes on it just gets more and more buried and if we're talking about evidence-based medicine becoming this forced new standard and there is only one pathway through from diagnosis to prescription, you know, it's only something like the internet that's going to keep this evidence or this information alive but I know and I think it's happening more and more as time goes by but... When you search for things on Google or other, you know, search engines, I don't recommend Google for a minute, but I'm just saying when you search for things, a lot of things are becoming very difficult to find. And I know this happens, but I don't want to get off the beaten track with that statement. So, Dr. P. One other point is that allopregnenolone is essentially the end of a line of metabolites starting with cholesterol. That's right. Those are regulated at many steps before they come into existence. And so when you give the end product without looking at the condition of all of the preceding steps, that's a great opportunity for throwing the whole system out of balance. For example, estrogen and aldosterone are other......end products of a line of steroid metabolism, and each of those has a long history in which it turns out that their excess is very dangerous. I don't know if anything like that will turn out for using the simple allopragmentolone without any of its precursors, but it's... That's something they haven't examined. they're anti-excitotoxic. So I saw a study here with Alla Pregnalla and it was actually a fairly old article, it was a 2006 article from a university in Sweden in Umeå and they noted that the thing was biphasic, they were saying, and this reminds me like I said of valerian because most people use valerian for insomnia and overexcitation, it calms people down, that's what you know it's what its traditional use has always been for. But I've noticed definitely and I know other people that practice herbal medicine in England and see a lot of people and use and prescribe valerian have noticed that there is a small subset of the population that actually gets stimulated by it and this article about allopragnenolone said the same thing that at certain doses it was excitatory and other doses it had more of a calming stabilizing effect. Do you? That's the sort of thing you risk when you're using an end. of line metabolite because normally it can never get above a certain level because it has to go through all of these stages in which each precursor produces some kind of smaller amount of product and so if you artificially give an amount that the body could never experience on its own then you're going to for example possibly anesthetize some of the regulatory inhibitory nerves and release things that are less sensitive to inhibition so what you're doing is risking something that the organism has never experienced before and is unpredictable. I was going to ask you a little bit later on but probably now is a good time to ask you the question about postpartum depression. For which this drug has been approved and your understanding of the cause of postpartum depression, how this can be avoided by women if they do the right thing because I believe you know it's very treatable. Yeah, it happens in women with a history of stress, difficult pregnancy, difficult birth or maybe those were... routine, but maybe there was a history of stress earlier in life, and each stage she was compensating for, but the burden of going through the pregnancy and birth. When you're building the baby's body and brain, if you don't have enough calcium available in your diet, for example, you increase your parathyroid hormone. You take calcium out of your bones to build the baby's bones. And vitamins and hormones, the baby gets priority over some of these nutrients. And so even in apparently healthy women, pregnancy increases the risk of a nutritional deficiency. And the fact is that the women who... suffer postpartum depression have had some kind of a history of preceding stress. Okay. Do you think there's any relation to menstrual disorders? Because I think... Yeah, PMS exactly is closely related to postpartum. Yeah, okay. All right. So you're listening to Ask Your Ep Dr. Kami D. Galval, 91.1 FM, and from 7.30 here in a few moments until the end of the show, you're invited to call in the questions. I've related or unrelated to the subject here and it's 707 923 3911. Okay, so I wanted to ask you again about exposure to high levels of estrogen. If we would tenet and posit the suggestion that exposure to very high levels of estrogen being directly responsible for the dramatic shrinkage in gray matter of the brain which has been shown, how would you respond to the suggestion that exposure to high levels of estrogen being directly responsible for the dramatic shrinkage in gray matter of the brain which has which women refer to as baby brain in which the MRI studies confirm being analogous to advanced aging, why isn't progesterone supplementation after birth recommended to speed up recovery of the gray matter resolution as it's clearly been shown to reverse the effects and what would be a reasonable amount of progesterone postpartum and for how long? In healthy women, the progesterone level in the cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. Increases considerably during the time when the brain is being repaired after the stress of pregnancy. But the amount of cholesterol can be determining. Normally during this time of progesterone increase in the healthy woman after the birth, cholesterol... is well above normal and is the precursor for making the large amount of progesterone. But women with postpartum depression typically have a reduced level of cholesterol and so they just couldn't possibly make enough progesterone if the precursor isn't there. And vitamin A and thyroid are other limiting factors. So even if the cholesterol is there, but they're low thyroid. Or have a vitamin A deficiency, then they won't make the restorative amount of progesterone. And like that one experiment showed, 20 milligrams orally of progesterone is enough to triple the amount of allopregnanolone. A normal cycling woman produces about 30 milligrams of progesterone daily in the luteal phase. That would be a reasonable amount therapeutically in the postpartum time but the requirement depends if she's still under stress and producing or not eliminating estrogen as well as she should then it might take larger amounts and that depends on the things like your thyroid function. Cholesterol level vitamin A and stress hormones. Okay, I've heard you mentioned in the past Hydroxy methylbutyrate as a possible You know compound to improve cholesterol levels, but I know you've always mentioned lots of fructose with a healthy liver and thyroid Also being responsible for improving cholesterol levels and these specifically to enable downstream manufacture of steroid and neuroprotective hormones Like progesterone and females etc. Do you have any other suggestions for increasing? It seems a little odd to ask but for increasing cholesterol levels I think I'm having enough carbohydrate sugar in the diet It's a very important thing Okay, sugar and carbohydrate. All right. Okay, so Next question then And I've wondered this I don't have any evidence for it, but I'm going to put it out then you probably thought about it So I think it's a good good point to ask you. Do you do you think? There is a subset of women Who despite the massive rise of progesterone they benefit from during pregnancy is still actually estrogen dominant essentially Oh, oh sure. Yeah, especially if they have a history of DMS or any kind of biological stress and most often it's associated with slightly low thyroid function. OK, so that can exist, only because I've seen the numbers that they put out there, whether it's medical publications or alternative, but the huge increase in progesterone, you would think it would outweigh the rise, because I know it's also a concomitant rise of estrogen, but it's not a concomitant rise. Do you have any idea of the proportion of... About 50 years ago I saw a good chart based on very large number of pregnancies in which there was a steady increase of progesterone through the whole pregnancy, just a very steady increase at a level I think it was 50 times higher than the estrogen level and charts are very misleading usually. They often graph them with different axes for estrogen and progesterone so it really should show an extremely low line for the estrogen being 50 times lower on the concentration. Okay, but it is still very possible to be estrogen dominant during a pregnancy and regardless of the amount of progesterone being secreted which is pretty high. Yeah, you have a limited capacity to carry progesterone because of this needing 50 times more than estrogen and so if your background estrogen is staying high because of low thyroid function. Or a low B vitamin or low protein intake or something then it's impossible to produce and distribute enough progesterone to offset that falsely high amount of estrogen and so no amount of progesterone increase will make that pregnancy healthy. It requires getting the estrogen under control with nutrition and good thyroid function. Okay all right well before we take this first call let me just say that from now until the end of the show if you'd like to call in the number 707-923-3911 let's take this first call a call away from what's your question? New York and two questions for Dr. P. First I guess uh you're not a fan of vigorous exercise but um I've read that as long as you're not running a marathon if you're running for 20 minutes or whatever and you're doing sprints that it actually increases co2 do you agree with that um because i know nitric oxide and lactic acid are the the ones that you want to avoid excess amounts of it but even yeah entirely on on your physiology especially your thyroid function a person with borderline hypothyroidism will With just the most slight exertion, we'll start producing lactic acid, which displaces the carbon dioxide. So if you're really in great condition, you can keep your carbon dioxide level up and not produce any lactic acid with a moderate amount of exercise. Okay, so whether or not it's useful or not is sort of depending on the health of the individual, I guess. For a healthy person, it could be very positive. For an unhealthy person, it could add to their problems, essentially. Yeah, when the lactic acid goes up because you're not using oxygen properly, then you release first a lot of histamine, which produces soreness and maybe asthma and various symptoms, and then... If the histamine is causing the blood pressure to go down after the exercise, but with greater exercise, then you release serotonin from the mast cells. That could cause a blood pressure spike, which is much worse than just the histamine effect. Okay, so just the second part of my first question, if you take the assumption that people over 50... are predominately hypothyroid, even if they weren't, you know, in their earlier years, and 60, certainly, then if people are exercising, what are the two things that people should do? I've heard one from your talks that if you take, you know, maybe even just three drops of, or 60, I use a vitamin E, that that would actually be very protective, and so the benefits of exercise, you know, might outweigh the negatives, because you're taking precautions prior to the exercise. Is that true? And a lot of athletes are starting to use baking soda before the stressful exertion. That provides extra sodium and bicarbonate and CO2. Okay, so both of those are protective. So if you did that and you had a little bit of sugar or whatever, orange juice, that would somewhat mitigate the DNA damage or whatever that might occur. Okay, second question relates to... I don't know if you've heard of this, but... It's called Cat's Claw, and supposedly what it does, it's a, I think, a root bark, that ultimately if you boil it for 30 minutes, and maybe it's like mushrooms where, you know, there's bad things in them, but if you boil it for an hour, you know, the bad things go away, and all the good stuff stays, but it supposedly repairs DNA, and it's been used for like a thousand years by the Aztecs and Incas. Are you familiar with it at all, or do you agree or disagree with it? What's the name of it again? Cat's Claw. Cat's Claw, C-A-T-S, and then C-L-A-W, I, oh, yeah, no, I've never studied that. All right, okay, so you're talking about a product called Uncarrier Tementosa, and yeah, and they've produced, it was a big deal for Lyme's disease about four or five years ago, they produced, or in fact a company called Mediurban Australia produced a T-O-A-3, which is the oxyindole alkaloid that was supposedly responsible for... you know, mitigating the effects of Lyme's. I'm not too sure of its activity for what you're mentioning but I know it in the context of its use in Lyme's disease. Okay, so there is some benefit to it. Well, definitely for Lyme's, yeah. Yeah, the other question I had is, you know, you talk about vitamin K, then there's the vitamin, you know, MK. Vitamin K2, there's MK4 and MK7, and you know, you see MK7, but my understanding, sorry, there's MK1, MK4, and MK7. If you're supplementing vitamin K, is it appropriate to make sure that you have just MK4, because that's the one that is the most important for the... If you eat animal liver, you're getting the whole variety of them. And that's because the liver can convert K1 or K2 to the other higher chains. And so I think K1 is adequate, or K2, because our liver can make the others. Our own livers? Yeah. Oh, okay, okay. All right, so if I may, there's just one last... So I have a thought. If your thyroid's active, that means that your adrenals are inactive. So I think they work in reverse. So if you take an example of someone who's always low thyroid and their adrenals are very active so that they're generating lots of cortisol throughout their whole life, since that's the fight or flight response, if they train their body to chronically produce that cortisol to make up for their chronically low thyroid activity, is it conceivable that those people, because it's fight or flight, that they, in the absence of some sort of crisis, that they might actually try to create a crisis to essentially enable them to maintain that long cycle? I mean, it sounds crazy. No. In the early 60s, that was a very common idea among psychologists and psychiatrists, and I've known people that seem to typify that condition where... they know how to create excitement and turmoil. So you agree with it? And then the solution then would be to try to get your thyroid action up because then... and to really change the cycle to make sure your thyroid's active with all the ways that you've described. Yeah. People who have been creating turmoil just sit around and enjoy and smile. That's my own. Thanks very much. Yeah, appreciate your call caller. Okay so the number if you're in the area or even out of the area or even on a different continent it's 707-923-3911. Okay so Dr. P, just moving on a little bit from postpartum depression but still keeping the thread of where we're going with the hormones and or the approach to the treatment. Apart from progesterone supplementation Could anything else be done for women who exhibit gestational diabetes as a symptom of this kind of energetic defect? Yeah, I started thinking in relation to the previous question that it isn't just a matter of the thyroid and adrenals, but all of the hormones are involved in the energy process. And so the... importance of sodium and calcium in pregnancy, it isn't just for blood volume and bone building and such, but those are closely involved with thyroid in avoiding the adrenal stress hormone excess and keeping up the energy system. Okay. Alright, because it seems time and time again the... The prerequisite here is metabolic energy, and it's that defect here that's largely in part for causing everything else to fall with it, and so thyroid hormone and those things that support an active thyroid and the uptake by the cell and all the secretion. Yeah, and people who have a history of stress besides all of the essential nutrients, protein and vitamins and trace minerals and so on. Will have an increased requirement for sodium and calcium and the vitamin D to help assimilate the calcium. Yeah, okay. I had a question that was written to me about a website this person had visited and this person was a doctor, excuse me, I think they're a naturopath and... It was devoted to the idea of chronic vitamin A toxicity as the underlying cause of most conditions and I quote the statement there said the basic premise is that many autoimmune diseases are caused by being in a chronic state of elevated storage levels of retinol, retinoic acid and possibly the carotenoid vitamin A precursor. Do you have any comment about websites author and... What was your views on the necessity of vitamin A B and are you aware of toxicity in general with this? It is used to make the steroid hormones, all of them from cholesterol, thyroid and vitamin A travel together on a protein in the blood, they're so closely associated and are taken up by the steroid producing cells together, so you just don't produce....steroid hormones, for example, without vitamin A, and it's used in protein synthesis, making hair and skin and so on, will fail if you're deficient in vitamin A. Bucose membranes thicken and stop producing bucose with a vitamin A deficiency. Someone sent me these books, a recent author, claiming that there is vitamin A toxicity. Rampant. And I looked through it and couldn't find any facts at all. All right, so you were contacted by somebody who had a similar question about vitamin A toxicity being, you know, touted as being the causal... Yep, many, many years ago some Arctic explorers ate polar bear liver and their skin got inflamed and started peeling off. And that has been cited in textbooks for I guess 80 years or so as proof that vitamin A is toxic but you know polar bears sometimes eat fish that have been poisoned by algae and their livers will store that for up to 24 hours at a very toxic level and they might have just gotten some fish toxin, algae toxin by way of the fish. So even that very famous basis for claiming vitamin A toxicity, there's no fact and when the drug companies were coming out with things like Retin-A, there were sudden news releases all around the country from medical schools reporting incidents in which people for example went blind from taking vitamin A. And one of them at the University of Oregon, I phoned the department and tried to get in contact with a professor who had told that to a newspaper. I couldn't get any personal verification. I think they were all just made up with the encouragement of the drug companies to create the desire for the safe, non-toxic....synthetic vitamin A's. Interesting. I'll just quickly can I ask you about vitamin B12 because I wasn't going to as part of the outline I'd produced for the show but given that I do and have seen lab work where people's vitamin B12 is outside the range and is pretty high. It can be produced by bacteria in the intestine and... I've seen probably a dozen people with extremely high vitamin A, or vitamin B12, who weren't eating any source of it. But I think it must be coming from overgrowth of bacteria in the small intestine. Years ago, I knew a guy who was very sick of vegetarian, and he showed me his blood tests had extremely high carotene and extremely low vitamin A. Knowing that vitamin B12 is used in converting carotene to vitamin A, he suggested that he eat some vitamin B12. Within just a few days, his vitamin A was up to normal, the carotene had gone down, and all his symptoms had disappeared. Okay, all right, so you're listening to Ask Europe, Dr. Cammie De Galville, 91.1 FM. From now until the end of the show, 8 o'clock, you're invited to call in with any questions. Number 707-923-3911. Okay, and we'll carry on here with the other questions that I've got for you on the light splashing. I was wondering if people, everybody's out for the solstice to celebrate and that they're going to hear this later on in the archives. I regularly get people emailing me, they listen to the show on the archive and they ask questions, you know, there and then on the emails, but... I was wondering, the phone's ringing and let's take this next caller. Caller, you're on the air, where are you from? I'm curious, I have been hearing from a lot of my football friends lately that there's a product out in Texas called pickle juice. Are you guys familiar with what the... Pickle juice?...constituents of pickle juice are? Hmm. Ahhhhhhhhhhh! Lots of athletes drink pickle juice, I drink kimchi juice for the salt to put off cramps. Right, okay, but do they say what it contains? Well, it's astringent, you know, it obviously has pickles that are, you know, molecularized in it. And it's, you know, it's something they claim it's for people who have hangovers. You know, we know that in our little town people have a hell of a hangover and that's why they drink their coffee in the morning. I'm curious to know if you guys know anything about that, or you might want to look into that, Dr. Pete. I would imagine it would contain lactic acid, if it's the traditional way of making pickles, and salt. And just some salty anything in the morning can be very settling. Oh, very good. It helps to regulate your blood sugar and lower the stress hormones. I did have another question. I have contacted you in the past and it was concerning that monk fruit sugar. Have you done any more research on that by any chance? No. Okay, well I'll tell you, just for the folks out there, pretty soon people are going to be able to eat their chocolate candies, won't have any sugar in it, they won't have to look over their shoulders apprehensively at their doctors anymore, and they'll be able to eat a 36-count box of the monk fruit sugar because it's actually... a cure-all in China for diabetes. Alright, we'll keep our ears and eyes open and we'll see where the... see where the research comes from and see the... see the published reports. We look forward to that. I appreciate your call. Thank you. Thank you. Alright, so Dr. P, I had again... I wanted to post another email question to you for your response to it because a person was unable to call during the last show. It was about SLE, systemic lupus erythematosus, typically characterised as an autoimmune disorder and the butterfly rash is something that we were always told when we were doing pathology at school and so the butterfly rash, the Malar rash was an outward classic sign of it. What do you know about SLE and what would be your approach to this quote unquote autoimmune disease that attacks the joints? The brain, the kidneys and other organs? Like the other autoimmune diseases, it's much more common in women than men and animal models can be created with an estrogen excess. Estrogen activates a whole row of inflammatory processes. And thyroid and progesterone are things that have been... pretty successful. Women believed they were going to have to have a kidney transplant or something. When they took progesterone and thyroid, they found they had no more symptoms. So you could definitely see it as an estrogen excess symptom? Yeah. Yeah, okay, good. All right, we do have another caller here. So caller, let's take this question. Where are you from and what's your question? Jersey. Question, there's a professor from MIT that's been studying glyphosate and some of the effects and while she hasn't done the research on it, she seems quite knowledgeable, though she's probably not, she's an engineer by training, and seems to have an hypothesis that glyphosate is so similar to the glycine molecule that it actually can potentially displace glycine, which seems to be similar to the notion that fluoride can actually displace iodine because it's so similar, which you know is obviously troubling for the thyroid, which is probably why they want the water fluoridated to mess people up. But do you know anything about how damaging glyphosate is? Because I know you've mentioned in the past it's water-soluble. But the notion that it could replace glycine, that could seem to have more systemic issues. What's your thought? I think it's very toxic at such small amounts, extremely small amounts, that interfering with glycine wouldn't do much at that tiny level. I think the mechanism is more likely related to... DNA regulation. DNA damage? Yeah. Okay, so one other question relating to green vegetables. I know you've mentioned that they're a good source of calcium, but they have PUFA in them. And just to clarify my understanding, I remember at one point you were saying that if you boil them, like for an hour, that they become... or somehow the PUFA......content goes down and they become more of a proper food? You can skim it if any fat rises to the surface. You just pour that off. Well, actually, I wasn't talking about boiling them in water as opposed to actually steaming them. Maybe... is there a difference there or do you treat that the same? Because steaming them, you'd have the water boiling and you wouldn't really... there'd be nothing to pour off. Yeah, I think it's an advantage to be able to pour off. any of the fat that rises. So you're saying it's better to boil them, essentially, than to steam them, would be safer? Yeah, and to drink the liquid, because the magnesium and calcium, a lot of it goes into the water. Oh, you're saying, and don't eat the vegetables? Well, if you need carbohydrates and any protein and such, they do have that value with the important magnesium and calcium. A lot of it goes into the water. Oh, I see. And so, does the pufa remain in the leaves even though you're boiling them? Or does that mitigate itself too? Yeah, a lot of it remains tied into the proteins of the leaf. And when you eat it, your bile salts will cause you to absorb most of the pufa that is associated with the protein in the leaf. So you're saying no matter how much you boil it, that's one of the reasons why you don't eat green vegetables? Yeah. OK, thank you very much. There you go, like it is. OK, so we've got six minutes here. If anybody else wants to call in with another quick question, that's fine. Otherwise, we'll wrap up with another question. But 707-923-3911. Dr. P, I wanted to ask you about another... You may not have an answer to this, in which case I have one more question for you. But it came out today, I think they patented it, and the FDA approved it. It's another drug. And it's based on melanocortin and it's used for females as a kind of viagra alternative for increasing sexual arousal and appetite both for men and women and it's called vileasy. Do you know anything about it? If you don't, it doesn't matter. No, but the principle, two things stand out. Pro-opio melanocortin is the precursor protein for making melanocortin and beta-lipoprotein and the endorphins and ACTH. And so those are things that come up during the stress reaction. And so the melanocortin and its receptors are normally activated during stress. And again, if you take... one of the end hormone products and take it out of the context of the rest of the stress reactions, you're going to have wildly unpredictable effects. And the suppression of appetite is one of the things known to be associated with those receptors. And if a woman is lacking desire for a physical reason rather than pain......just social, there are probably serious metabolic problems that are going to be ignored if you just try to push up one single mental function. And you should be looking at the, for example, the DHEA is a great activator of libido, but it goes down under stress when cortisol rises. The cortisol has an anti-libido effect, suppressing the effect of DHEA, so you should be concentrating on lowering the stress and if anything, giving a boost to the anti-stress things with pregnenolone, progesterone or DHEA or thyroid. Ok, and very quickly for people that are listening out there, don't just use DHEA, you've always mentioned that DHEA should be used in conjunction with adequate thyroid, otherwise you can......turn or convert some of that DHEA into estrogens, correct? Yeah. Alright, thanks very much for your time, Dr. Peete. It's three minutes to the top of the hour here and I'll let people know how to find you. Ok, thank you. Ok, so for people that have listened to the show this evening, Dr. Ray Peete's website is www.raypeete.com. He's got lots of articles that he's written, he produces a newsletter, it's fully referenced and keep your eyes and ears out. The show is going to be up on an Instagram page that's going to be dedicated to Dr. Pete, what he actually said, not what unfortunately some of the bloggers on the Ray Pete forum are just creating their own imaginations and creating a theory from it, but just to make sure that people get exactly what's been said, it'll be posted on the internet here, probably three or four months time, busy getting together and collaborating. I'm with a very kind person who's agreed to type up a lot of the stuff and to put it up and I'll be collating it with that person and probably in three or four months we'll have an Instagram page dedicated to Dr. Pete's philosophies, we can be reached Monday through Friday or in fact Monday through Sunday if you just want to leave a message or you want to write an email, it's andrew at westernbotanicalmedicine.com or 1-888-WBM-ERB. Thanks for listening and until the third Friday of next month, thanks for joining.