Ray Peat's Newsletter

Beware the barrenness of a busy life. Socrates

Copyright 2009

Milk in context: allergies,
ecology, and some myths

Food allergies are becoming much more
common in recent decades, especially in industri-
alized countries. Most attention has been given to
theories about changes in people, such as the
reduction in infectious diseases and parasites, or
vitamin D deficiency, or harmful effects from
vaccinations, and little attention has been given to
degradation of the food supply.

Our food cultures, like linguistic and moral
cultures, give us some assumptions or theories
about the way the world should be, and if these
beliefs aren’t questioned and tested, they can
permeate the culture of science, turning the
research process into a rationalization of accepted
opinions.

In general, those who pay for research are
those with an investment in or commitment to the
preservation and expansion of the existing systems
of production and distribution. Cheap mass
production, durability and long shelf-life are more
important than the effects of foods on health. The
biggest industries are usually able to keen public
attention away from the harm they do.

The historical economic importance of cereals
and beans is reflected in the nutritional and
biochemical research literature, which has paid
relatively little attention to basic questions about
human adaptation to the ecosystems. From the
early petrochemical “Green Revolution” to the
contemporary imposition of genetically altered
seeds, the accumulated economic power of the
food industry has taken control of the food
culture.

In evaluating each research publication relat-
ing to nutrition and health, we should ask what
alternative possibilities are being neglected, for

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405

Not for republication without written permission.

July 2010

“practical” reasons, cultural preferences, and
business interests.

Some people with an ecological concern have
argued that grains and beans can most economi-
cally provide the proteins and calories that people
need, but good nutrition involves much more than
the essential nutricnis.

“Efficient” industrial agriculture has bee
concerned with cheaply producing those impor-
tant nutrients, and their critics have focussed on
their use of toxic chemicals, on the social damage
they produce, the degradation of the soil, the toxic
effects of genetic modification, their unsustain-
able use of petroleum, and occasionally on the
lower nutritional value of chemically stimulated
crops.

I think far too little attention is being given to
the effects of abnormal and stressful growth
conditions on the plants’ natural defense systems.
Plants normally synthesize some toxins and
inhibitors of digestive enzymes to discourage
attacks by bacteria, fungi, insects, and other
predators. When a plant is injured or otherwise
stressed, it pro@uces more of the defensive
substances, and very often they communicate their
stress to other nlants, and the resulting physiologi-
cal changes can cause changes in seeds that affect
the resistance of the progeny. (Agrawal, 2001)

- One of many substances produced by plants in

response to injury is chitinase, an enzyme that
breaks down chitin, a polysaccharide that is 2
structural component of fungi and insects. Chiti-
nase, which is produced by bacteria and humans.
as well as by plants and other organisms, is
invoived in developmental processes as well as in
the innate immune system. In plants, the enzyme
is induced by ethylene and salicylate, in animals
by estrogen, light damage, and infections, and can
be demonstrated in polyps and cancers.

The two main classes of plant allergens are the
stress-induced chitinases, and seed storage
proteins, such as gluten. The chitinase allergens
are responsible for reactions to latex (which is
secreted by rubber trees in reaction to a wound),
bananas, avocados, many other fruits and vegeta-
bles, and some types of wood and other plant
materials. Intensive agricultural methods are
increasing the formation of the defensive chemi-
cals, and the industrialized crops are responsible
for the great majority of the new allergies that
have appeared inthe last 30 years.

The presence of the chitinase family of

proteins in humans was first discovered in the
inflamed asthmatic lung. It was then found at high
levels in the uterine endometrium at the time of
implantation of the embryo (an inflammation-like
situation) and in the uterus during premature
labor. Since estrogen treatment is known to
increase the incidence of asthma and other inflam-
mations, the appearance of chitinase also in the
uterus in estrogen dominated conditions is inter-
esting, especially when the role of estrogen in
celiac disease (in effect an allergy to gluten) is
considered. Celiac disease is more prevalent
among females, and it involves the immunological
cross-reaction to an antigen in the estrogen-
regulated transglutaminase enzyme and the gluten
protein. The (calcium-regulated) transglutaminase
enzyme is involved in the cross-linking of proteins
in keratinized cells, in fibrotic processes in the
liver, and in cancer. (People with celiac disease
often suffer from osteoporosis and urinary stone
deposition, showing a general problem with
calcium regulation.)

This means that estrogen and stress cause the

appearance of antigens in the human or animal

tissues that are essentially the same as the stress-
induced and defensive proteins in plant tissues. A
crocodile might experience the same sort of aller-
i¢ Teacliem when cating estrogen-treated women
anc when <stimg commercial bananas.

be waooes states of the imnate immune
SySte © Seem neglected by immunoiogists, for
Samp < & reaen \& organ transplantation. The
“musjer Gisiocom=patibility antigens are matched,
bul Gram Gmemapiemts still sometimes fail. A study
found that the Evers fom young men had a high

——e

survival rate when transplanted into either men or
women, but the livers of older women donors
were rejected at a high rate when transplanted into
either men or women. Exposure to estrogen
increases intracellular calcium and the unsatura-
tion of fatty acids in tissue lipids, and the expres-
sion of enzymes such as_ chitinase and
transglutaminase, and the various enzymes in the
structure-sensitive estrogen-controlled metabolic
pathways.

Siro

gen’s actions are closely and pervasively
involved with 1 g L10f¢
changes affect the basic tissue structures and
processes that constitute the innate immune
system, Estrogen’s effect in increasing suscenti-
bility to “autoimmune” diseases hasn’t yet been
recognized by mainstream medicine.

fhe regulation at ralcinm na thece
ie ToSUIANON OF Calcium, and tnese

The chemist Norman Pirie argued convinc-
ingly that leaf protein had much higher nutritional
value than grain and bean proteins, and that it had
the potential to be much more efficient economi-
cally, if it could be separated from the less desir-
able components of leaves.

The amino acid composition and nutritional
value of leaf protein is similar to milk protein,
which is understandable since cows produce milk
from the amino acids produced in their ramens by
bacteria digesting the leaves the cows have eaten.
The bacteria perform the refining processes that
Pirie believed could be done technologically, and
they also degrade or detoxify the major toxins and
allergens.

The nutrients produced in the cow’s rumen are
selectively absorbed into the cow’s bloodstream,
where the liver can further filter out any toxins
before the amino acids and other nutrients are
absorbed by the udder to be synthesized into milk.
If cows are fed extremely bad diets, for example
with a very large amount of grain, the filtering
process is iess perfect, and some aliergens can
reach the milk, but since sick cows are less profit-
able than healthy cows, dairies usually feed their
cows fairly well.

In a recent study of 69,796 hospitalized
newborns, a diagnosis of cow’s milk allergy was
made in 0.21% of them. Among those whose
birthweight had been less than a kilogram, 0.35%

of them were diagnosed with the milk allergy.
Gastrointestinal symptoms were the main reason
for the diagnosis, but a challenge test to confirm
the diagnosis was used in only 15% of the partici-
pating hospitals, and a lymphocyte stimulation test
was used in only 5.5% of them (Miyazawa, et al.,
2009). There are many publications about milk
allergies, but they generally involve a small group
of patients, and the tests they use are rarely evalu-
ated on healthy control subjects.

Several surveys have found that of children
who have a diagnosed milk allergy, about 2/3 of
them grow out of the allergy.

People who have told me that they have had
digestive problems with milk have sometimes
found that a different brand of milk doesn’t cause
any problem.

Milk with reduced fat content is ; required by
US law to have vitamins D and A added. The
vehicle used in the vitamin preparation, and the
industrial contaminants in the “pure” vitamins
themselves, are possible sources of allergens in
commercial milk, so whole m:!k is the most likely
to be free of allergens.

A thickening agent commonly used in milk
products, carrageenan, is a powerful allergen that
can cause a “pseudo-latex allergy” (Tarlo, et al.,
1995). It is a sulfated polysaccharide, structurally
similar to heparin. There are good reasons to think
that its toxic effects are the result of disturbance of
calcium metabolism (see for example Abdullahi,
et al., 1975; Halici, et al., 2008; Janaswamy and
Chandrasekaran, 2008).

Besides the idea of milk allergy, the most
common reason for avoiding milk is the belief that
the genes of some ethnic groups cause them to
lack the enzyme, lactase, needed to digest milk
sugar, lactose, and that this causes lactose intoler-
ance, resulting in gas or diarrhea when milk is
consumed. Tests have been reported in which 2
glass of milk will cause the iactase deficient
people to have abdominal pain. However, when
intolerant people have been tested, using milk
without lactose for comparison, there were no
differences between those receiving milk with
lactose or without it. The “intolerant” peopie
consistently tolerate having a glass with each
meal. :

When a group of lactase deficient people have
been given some milk every day for a few weeks.
they have adapted, for example with tests showing
that much less hydrogen gas was produced from
lactose by intestinal bacteria after they had
adapted (Pribila, et al., 2000).

Bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine can
be caused by hypothyroidism (Lauritano, e al.
2007), and the substances produced by these
bacteria can damage the lining of the small intes-
tine, causing the loss of lactase enzymes (Walshe.
et al., 1990).

Another hormonal condition that probabil
contributes to lactase deficiency is progesteron
deficiency, since 2 synthetic progestin has heen
found to increase the enzyme (Nagpaul, et al..
1990). The particular progestin they used lacks
many of progesterone’s effects, but it does protect

' against some kinds of stress, including high estro-

gen and cortisol. This suggests that stress, with its
increased ratio of estrogen and cortisol to proges-
terone, might commonly cause the enzyme to
decrease.

Two other ideas that sometimes cause people
to avoid drinking milk and eating cheese are that
they are “fattening foods,” and that the high
calcium content could contribute to hardening of
the arteries.

When I traveled around Europe in 1968, I
noticed that milk and cheese were hard to find in
the Slavic countries, and that many people were
fat. When I crossed from Russia into Finland, I
noticed there were many stores selling a variety of
cheeses, and the people were generally slender.
When I lived in Mexico in the 1960s, good milk
was hard to find in the cities and towns, and most
women had fat hips and short legs. Twenty years
later, when good milk was available in all the
cites, there were many more slender women, and
the young people on average had muck longer
legs. The changes I noticed there reminded me oF
the differences J had seen between Moscow and
Heisinki. and | suspect that the differences =
calcium intake were partly responsible for the
changes of physique.

In recent years there have been samics
showing that eee milk drinkers are . fa

quality protein and saturated fat undoubtedly
contribute to milk’s anti-obesity effect, the high
calcium content is probably the main factor.

The parathyroid hormone (PTH) is an impor-
tant regulator of calcium metabolism. If dietary
calcium isn’t sufficient, causing blood calcium to
decrease, the PTH increases, and removes calcium
from bones to maintain a normal amount in the
blood. PTH has many other effects, contributing
to inflammation, calcification of soft ne and
decreased respirator energy productior

When ther viemia D,
and magnesium in the diet, PTH is kept to a
minimum. When PTH is kept low, cells increase
their formation of the uncoupling proteins, that
cause mitochondria to use energy at a higher rate,
and this is associated with decreased activity of
the fatty acid synthase enzymes.

These changes are clearly related to the anti-
obesity effect of calcium, but those enzymes are
important for many other problems.

The “metabolic syndrome,” that involves
diabetes, hypertension, and obesity, is associated
with high PTH (Ahistrém, et al., 2009; Hjelme-
saeth, et al., 2009).

Alzheimer’s disease involves decreased
mitochondrial activity and low levels of the
uncoupling proteins. There is evidence that milk
drinkers are protected against dementia (Yamada,
et al., 2003). Cancer involves increased activity of
the fatty acid synthase enzymes. Increased calcium
consumption beneficially affects both sets of
enzymes, uncoupling proteins and fatty acid
synthase.

Ay 1 1 Fee Sarees ep are
Multiple sclerosis PRiaPSOS CCASisteiuiy GCCui

is ade ed tuate calcil um,

at times of high PTH, and remissions consistently
occur at times of low PTH (Soilu-Hanninen, et al.,
3008). PTH increases the activity of nitric oxide
synthase, and nitric oxide is a factor in the vascu-
lar leakiness that is so important in MS.

There are components of milk that might
protect against tooth decay by inhibiting the
binding of bacteria to teeth (Danielsson, et al.,
2009).

David McCarron has published a iarge amount
of evidence showing | calcium deficiency
contributes to high blood pressure. The chronic

elevation of 1 caused by calcium deficiency

ry 2
ted
jf

causes the heart and blood vessels to retain
calcium, making them unable to relax fully.

Intravenous infusion of calcium can relax
blood vessels and improve heart function. The
suppression of PTH is probably the main
mechanism.

PTH (like estrogen) causes mast cells to
release promoters of inflammation, including
histamine and serotonin. Serotonin and nitric
oxide aii anee: to sie PTH secretion.

+ ¢ ¢ J lal J
as reduced

> Darar thy TOG gland h

heart problems and mortality (Costa-Hong, ;
2007) and insomnia (Esposito, et al., 2008;
Sabbatini, et al., 2002) in people with kidney
disease and excess PTH.

Increased carbon dioxide, for exampie when
adapted to high altitude, can greatly decrease
PTH. Frequent, but smaller, meals can reduce
PTH.

Cancer cells often secrete PTH and related
proteins with similar effects on calcium, and the
PTH stimulates the growth and invasiveness of
prostate cancer (DaSilva, et al., 2009) cells, and
seems to be as closely involved with breast
cancer. The PTH-related protein is associated with
calcification in breast cancer (Kanbara, et al.,
1994). Microscopic calcium crystals themselve
produce inflammation (Denko and Whitehouse.
1976).

Besides being an ecologically favorable source
of calcium, protein, sugar, and fat, the composi-
tion of milk causes it to be digested efficientiy.
supporting the growth of bacteria that are
relatively safe for the intestine and liver, and
tT aucing ti ine a2ds8vr iptior of 6NGOWALL.

Dividing any food into smaller meals can
lower the PTH, and milk is a convenient food to
use in small amounts and frequently.

Some amino acids directly stimulate insulin
secretion, decreasing blood sugar and leading to
the secretion of cortisol in reaction to the depres-
sion of blood glucose. The presence of lactose in
milk, and of fat, to slow absorption of the —
acids, helps to minimize the secretion of cortisol
The main protein of milk, casein, seems to have
some direct antistress effects (Biswas, ef a.
2003).

Since milk’s primary biological function is to
support the growth of a young animal, some of its
features make it inappropriate as a sole food for an
adult. To support cell division and growth, the
methionine and tryptophan content of milk is
higher than would be optimal for an adult animal,
and the phosphate might be slightly more than
needed, in relation to the calcium. Since the fetus
stores a large amount of iron during gestation, the
iron content of milk is low, and when a young
animal has used the stcred iron, its continuing
growth requires more iron than milk provides.
However, for an adult, the low iron content of
milk and cheese makes these foods useful for
preventing the iron overload that often contributes
to the degenerative diseases.

Combining milk and cheese with fruits adds to
the antistress effect. The additional sugar and
potassium and other minerals allow the milk
protein to be used more efficiently, by moderating
the secretion of cortisol, and helping to inhibit the
secretion of PTH.

Substances such as PTH, nitric oxide,
serotonin, cortisol, aldosterone, estrogen, thyroid
stimulating hormone, and prolactin have regula-
tory and adaptive functions that are essential, but
that ideally should act only intermittently, produc-
ing changes that are needed momentarily. When
the environment is too stressful, or when nutrition
isn’t adequate, the organism may be unable to
mobilize the opposing and complementary
substances to stop their actions. In those
situations, it can be therapeutic to use some of the
nutrients as supplements. Calcium carbonate
(eggsneii or oysier sieli, for
vitamins D and K, can sometimes produce quick
antistress effects, alleviating insomnia, hyperten-
sion, edema, inflammations and allergies, etc., but
the regular use of milk and cheese can prevent

exampic) aid

metabolic syndrome (MetS) in a community-based cohort of
men and women. Ahistrém T, Hagstrém E, Larsson A, Rudberg
C, Lind L, Hellman P.

Indian J Exp Biol. 2003 Apr:41(4):367-9. Protection of
adrenocortical activity by dietary casein in ether anaesthetized
rats. Biswas NM, Chattopadhyay A, Sarkar M. “Ether anaesthesia
to 20% casein fed rats caused no change in adrenal delta5-3beta-
HSD activity and serum corticosterone level when compared with
controls fed 20% casein diet. The results suggest that high milk
protein diet may prevent acute stress effects by protecting
adrenocortical activity. The present investigation opens up a new
area of management of stress.”

Am J Clin Nutr. 2008 Oct;88(4):877-85. Dairy calcium
supplementation in everweight er obese persons: its effect on
markers of fat metabolism. Bortoiotti M, Rudelie S, Schneiter P,
Vidal H, Loizon E, Tappy L, Acheson KJ.

J Am Coll Nutr. 2005 Dec;24(6 Supp!):5698-73S. The myth
of increased lactose intolerance in African-Americars. Bycrs
KG, Savaiano DA,

Exp Eve Res. 2004 Aug:79(2):239-47. Licht damage
induced changes in mouse retinal gene expression. Chen L, Wu
W, Dentchev T, Zeng Y, Wang J, Tsui I, Tobias FW, Bennett J,
Baldwin D, Dunaief JL.

J Urol. 2008 Sep;180(3):974-9. Epub 2008 Jul 17.Urinary
stone disease in adults with celiac disease: prevalence,
incidence and urinary determinants. Ciacci C, Spagnuolo G,
Tortora R, Bucci C, Franzese D, Zingone F, Cirillo M.

Surgery. 2007 Nov;142(5):699-703. Parathyroidectomy
reduces cardiovascular events and mortality in renal Hyperpa-
rathyroidism. Costa-Hong V, Jorgetti V, Gowdak LH, Moyses
RM, Krieger EM, De Lima JJ.

Caries Res. 2009;43(3):171-8. Human milk compounds
inhibiting adhesion of mutans streptococci to host ligand-
coated hydroxyapatite in vitro. Danielsson Niemi L, Hernell O,
Johansson I.

Cancer Res. 2009 Sep 15:69(18):7402-11. The
neuroendocrine-derived peptide parathyroid bormone-related
pretein promotes prostate cancer cell growth by stabilizing the
androgen receptor. DaSilva J, Gioeli D, Weber MJ, Parsons SJ.

J Rheumatol. 1976 Mar:3(1):34-62. Experimental inflam-
mation induced by naturally occurring microcrystalline
calcium salts. Denke CW, Whitehouse MW.

Dig Liver Dis. 2009 Aug:41(8):541-50. Transglutaminases
in inflammation and fibrosis of the gastrointestinal tract and
the fiver. Elii L, Bergamini CM, Bardella MT, Schuppan D.

f Nephrol, 2008 Mar-Anr:21 Sunn! 13:892-6. Parathyroi-
dectomy improves the quality of sleep in maintenance
hemodialysis patients with severe hyperparathyroidism.
Esposito MG, Cesare CM, De Santo RM, Cice G, Perna AF,
Violetti E. Conzo G, Bilancio G, Celsi S, Annunziata F, Iannelli S,
De Santo NG, Cirillo M, Livrea A.

Endocrinology. 1997 Jul;138(7):2665-73. Parathyroid

Gaucher SM, Moliteh M. Knatcik S. “Recent reports .. . suggest
that increased parathyroid eleed function may be one of the
more Common endocrine disturbemees associated with hyper-
tension.” “Compared t 2 secomd aee- and sex-matched normoten-
sive population. the hypertemsives demonstrated 2 Significant (p
iess than 0.005) relative bypercaicieria. For any level of urinary
sodium, hypertensives excreted more calctem. These preliminary
data suggest that parathyroid elend fimetios may be enhanced in
essential hypertension.”

Am J Med 1987 Jan 26:32(1B):27-33. The calcium paradox
of essential hypertension. McCammon DA. Moris CD. Bukoski R.
“Three disparate observations—that calciem mediates vascular

SOUIBISS

measured differences in serum ionized calcium concentration.
serum 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D concentration, and creatinine
clearance.”

Mol Immunol. 2007 Mar;44(8):1977-85. Estradiol activates
mast cells via 2. non-genomic estrogen receptor-alpha and
calcium influx. Zaitsu M, Narita S, Lambert KC, Grady I], Este
DM, Curran EM, Brooks EG, Watson CS, Goldbium RM. Midem-
Horiuti T.

Sea oe ek ae ak ah ak oak ek

ingestion by lactose maldigesters. Hertzler SR, Savaiano DA,
Levitt MD.

J Am Coll Nutr. 2009 Apr;28(2):142-9. Effects of dairy
products on intracellular calctum and blood pressure in adults
with essential hypertension. Hilpert KF, West SG, Bagshaw DM,
Fisheli V, Barnhart L, Lefevre M, Most MM, Zemel MB, Chow
M, Hinderliter AL, Kris-Etherton PM. “This study examined the
effects of dairy foods on blood pressure (BP) and intracellular
calcium ((Ca)(i)) and the dependence of BP changes on changes in
(Ca\(i).” “Consumption of dairy foods beneficially affects (Ca)(i),
resulting in improved BP in a subgroup defined by (Ca}{i)
response.”

Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2009 Feb 3;8:7. Parathyroid hormone,
but not vitamin D, is associated with the metabolic syndrome in
morbidly obese women and: men: a cross-sectional study.
eth J. Hofse D, Aasheim ET, Jenssen T. Moan J. Hager
en J, Bollerslev J.
ur J Epidemiol. 2003;18(7):677-84. The Swedish coeliac
ace i byline with a prevailing twofold higher risk in girls

factere. Tyars-

eomnered te have mew reflect gendor enarifr rich:
son A, Persson LA, Nystrém L, Hernell O.

Carbohydr Res. 2008 Feb 4;343(2):364-73. Epub 2007 Oct
30. Heterogeneity in iota-carrageenan molecular structure:
insights for polymorph II—>III transition in the presence of
calcium ions. Janaswamy S, Chandrasekaran R.

Nippon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Apr;94(4):394-9.
[Immunohistological evaluation of parathyroid hormone-
related protein in breast cancer with and without calcification
on mammography] [Article in Japanese] Kanbara Y, Kono N,
Nakaya M, Ishikawa Y, Fujiwara O, Kitazawa R, Kitazawa S.

J Pak Med Assoc. 1996 Jun;46(6):128-31. Changes in
plasma electrolytes during acclimatization at high altitude.
Khan DA, Aslam M, Khan ZU.

J Am Coll Nutr. 2009 Feb;28 Suppl 1:103S-19S. Milk
products, dietary patterns and blood pressure management.
Kris-Etherton PM, Grieger JA, Hilpert KF, West SG.

Br J Cancer. 1996 Jul;74(2):200-7. A new human breast
cancer cel] line, KPL-3C, secretes parathyroid hormone-related
protein and produces tumours associated with microcalcifica-
tions in nude mice. Kurebayashi J, Kurosumi M, Sonoo H.

J Clin Endocrinol! Metab. 2007 Nov;92(11):4180-4. Associa-
tion between hypothyroidism and small intestinal bacterial
overgrowth. Lauritano EC, Bilotta AL, Gabrielli M, Scarpellini E,
Lupascu A, Laginestra A. Novi M, Sottili S, Serricchio M,
Cammarota G, Gasbarrini G, Pontecorvi A, Gasbarrini A.

Bone. 2010 Oct 6. Rene involvement in ch

wb Som

nf -
mune diseases: Just a complication? Lombardi F, isaness A,
lafusco D, Dei Puente A. Esposito A, Prisco F, Troncone R,
Valerio G.

Hypertension 1980 Mar-Apr-2(2):162-8. Enhanced parathyroid
function in essential bypertemsion: a homeostatic response to a
urinary calcium leak. MoU = DA. Pmeree PA, Rubin RJ,
Gaucher SM, Molitch M. Krateik: S. “Recent reports .. . suggest
that increased parathyreid gland famction may 5¢ one of the
more common endecrime disterbamces associated with hyper-
tension.” “(Compared t « second age- and sex-matched normoten-
sive population. the hypertemsives Gemenstrated a significant (p
less than 0.005) relative bypercaictmria. Fer amy level of urinary
sodium, hypertensives excreted mere celctem. These preliminary
data suggest that parathyroid sland feectes may ve enhanced in

essential hypertension.
Am J Med (987 Jan 26:82) 1 8)27-33

The calcium paradox
.. Moms CD, Bukoski R.

smooth muscle contraction, that calcium channel blockers lower
blood pressure, and that increased dietary calcium intake can 2s

ameliorate hypertension--constitute somewhat of a paradox”
“This evidence, and the paradoxical therapeutic efficacy of
both calcium channel blockers and supplemental dietary
calcium, can be integrated into a single theoretic construct.”

Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2002 Oct;17(10):1854. Insomnia im
maintenance haemodialysis patients. Sabbatini M, Minale B
Crispo A, Pisani A, Ragosta A, Esposito R, Cesaro A, Cianciaruse
B, Andreucci VE.

J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2008 Feb;79(2):152-7
longitudinal study of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and intact
parathyrow hormone levels indicate the importance of vitamin
BD and calcium homeostasis i sel
Soilu-Hinninen M, Laaksonen M, Lait i 2 JP, Lilie
EM, Mononen I.

J Nutr. 2006 Apr;136(4):1107-13. Lactose intolerance
symptoms assessed by meta-analysis: a grain of truth that leads
to exaggeration. Savaiano DA, Boushey Ch McCabe GP.

O«, MSPED: O22 6.

T Atleray Clin lmmunal, 1094 May:
Anaphylaxis t to carrageenan: a neentio-lntex allergy. Tarie, SM
Dolovich, J Listgarten, C

Gut. 1990 Jul31(7):770-6. Effects of an enteric anaerobic
bacterial culture supernatant and deoxycholate on intestinal
caletum absorption and disaccharidase activity. Walshe K.
Healy MJ, Speekenbrink AB, Keane CT, Weir DG, O'Moore RR.

Metabolism. 2003 Aug;52(8):1072-7. Dietary sodium
restriction exacerbates age-related changes in rat adipose tissue
and liver lipogenesis. Xavier AR, Garofalo MA, Migliorini RH.
Kettelhut IC.

Hypertension 1994 Apr;23(4):513-30. Dietary calcium and
blood pressure in experimental models of hypertension. A
review. Hatton DC, McCarron DA.

Nippon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Apr;94(4):394-9.
[Immunohistological evaluation of parathyroid hormone-
related protein in breast cancer with and without calcification
on mammography] [Article in Japanese] Kanbara Y, Kono N,
Nakaya M, Ishikawa Y, Fujiwara O, Kitazawa R, Kitazawa S. “It
is suspected that PTHrP is also one of the main factors of calei-
fication in breast cancer.”

Kokuritsu Iyakuhin Shokuhin Ejisei Kenkyusho Hokoku
1998;(116):46-62. [Plant defense-related proteins as latex aller-
gens] [Article in Japanese] Yagami T.

J Am Geriatr Soc 2003 Mar;51(3):410-4. Association
between dementia and midlife risk factors: the Radiation
Bifects Research Foundation Adult reaith Study. Yamada M.
Kasagi F, Sasaki H, Masunari N, Mimori Y, Suzuki G.

Am J Hypertens 1995 Oct;8(10 Pt 1):957-64. Regulation of
parathyroid hormone and vitamin D in essential hypertension.
Young EW, Morris CD, Holcomb S, McMillan G, McCarron DA
“The maximal stimulated PTH level was significantly higher in
hypertensive than normotensive subjects in the absence
measured differences in serum ionized calcium concentration.
serum 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D concentration, and creatinine
clearance.”

Mol Immunol. 2007 Mar;44(8):1977-85. Estradiol activates
mast cells via 2. non-genomic estrogen receptor-alpha and
calcium infiux. Zaitsu M, Narita $, Lambert KC, Grady J), Estes
DM, Curran EM, Brooks EG, Watson CS, Goldbium RM. Midor-
Horiuti T.

Ta a aoc ick ek

