Ray Peat's Newsletter

Events are not the images of dead principles. Robert C. Creegan

Copyright 2012

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405

January 2013

Not for republication without written permission.

Demystifying dementia:
Protective progesterone

There are effective treatments for degenerative’
nerve diseases, based on well understood biologi-
cal mechanisms, but they are rarely used, because
the relation of those mechanisms to the diseases
isn't widely recognized. In recent years, there has
been a significant amount of research on the use
of progesterone for treating strokes and traumatic
brain injury, which involve some of the same
biological mechanisms as senile dementia and
other brain "diseases." At the same time, though,
there have been powerful commercial influences
preventing progress in these therapeutic uses.

In the 1970s when I would describe progester-
one's effectiveness in PMS, migraines, epilepsy,
nephritis, depression, cancer, burns, arthritis, and
dementia, it seemed impossible to physicians that
a single substance could do those things; they had
learned somewhere that "there are no panaceas." I
explained some of the reasons for progesterone's
"biological generality," but that information had
little effect on a medical culture that is organized
around the idea that each disease is a certain kind
of thing, with its own unique cause or group of
causes.

Therapeutic practices are limited by the lack of
biological generality underlying the medical
understanding of sickness. Hans Selye's concept of
stress was part of his search for general biological
principles relevant to medicine, but the "stress
syndrome," if it has any importance for medicine,
is likely to be treated as a thing -in itself, rather
than as an opportunity for enlarging the under-
standing of the various "diseases."

Historically, ideas of the causes of disease
have changed as new information became avail-
able. Tuberculosis and pellagra, which had been
thought of as hereditary diseases, came to be seen

as infectious and nutritional diseases, as experi-
mental knowledge accumulated. At each stage of
understanding, new factual knowledge was used
to explain the nature of a disease.

But when the medical industry invested
heavily in a certain way of treating a disease, the
treatment became a component of how the disease
was understood, and tended to freeze a certain
way of defining the disease.

In 1847 Rudolph Virchow said "diseases are
not isolated phenomena..., not beings that have
penetrated into the body..., but they are a certain
way in which living beings react to changed
circumstances....". In the 20th century, most
medical thinking about disease reverted to an
earlier essentialist attitude, emphasizing single
causes. Cancer was an extreme example of essen-
tialist thinking--it was a "genetically" distinct sort
of being, caused by mutant genes, implanted in
the victim organism. The treatments all involved
removing or killing tissue, and an industry based
on those treatments couldn't consider other defini-
tions of the disease.

The same cultural factors are involved in the
understanding of functional conditions, including
the degenerative brain diseases. When L-DOPA
was found to alleviate some of the symptoms of
Parkinson's disease, the disease came to be seen
as a dopamine deficiency, to the neglect of nearly
everything else involved (such as excessive
serotoninergic activity--Kaya, et al., 2008) in the
degenerative processes. For about 20 years
after the drug industry invested in the "cholinergic
hypothesis" of Alzheimer's disease, a deficiency
of acetylcholine was thought to be an essential
feature of the condition, despite a considerable
amount of evidence that the theory was
unfounded.

Although a disproportionate amount of
research was directed by these narrow

pharmaceutical ideas, some basic research contin-
ued to be done in universities, but even that was
strongly influenced by the cultural and economic
situation, the availability of funding and the possi-
bility of publishing. For example, the brain toxic
effects of estrogen were usually neglected, and the
much higher incidence of Alzheimer's disease in
women was usually interpreted as evidence that
the disease is caused by a deficiency of estrogen.
The neurotoxic effects of lipid peroxides and
prostaglandins were often ignored, while fish oil
was advocated to prevent and treat dementia. The
toxic effects of serotonin and nitric oxide were

seldom considered, while drugs to increase those .

were advocated to treat Alzheimer's disease.
These distortions, caused by the economic
pressure to make the disease conform to the exist-

ing drug business, have prevented the generaliza-

tion of the understanding and treatment of disease,
in line with Virchow's (and Selye's) thinking. If
we understand the basic life processes, and the
ways in which organisms "react to changed
circumstances," then we can look for ways to

support more appropriate reactions and to improve |

the circumstances.

At an early stage of the disease, the brain's
glucose consumption rate decreases, and later the
blood flow through the brain and the consumption
of oxygen decrease. This means that at the begin-
ning of the disease there is a shift from glucose to

fatty acids for energy production. This kind of '

change of fuel occurs during fasting, stress, diabe-
tes, and estrogenic stimulation.

Metabolic energy is fundamental to the devel-
opment and maintenance of the body, and to the
"ways in which living beings react to changed
circumstances." It's an obvious first thing to
consider when thinking about any "disease,"
whether it's cancer, radiation sickness, dementia,
depression, or traumatic injury.

The well known anatomical features of
Alzheimer's disease (neurofibrillary tangles and
amyloid plaques) appear as a result of the energy
failure, with stress increasing free fatty acids,
which inhibit glucose oxidation and promote
inflammation and lipid peroxidation, and cause
the accumulation of amyloid, which seems to be
responsible for the development of the tangles.

The mitochondria are responsible for the
efficient production of energy needed for the
functioning of complex organisms, and especially
for nerves. The enzyme in the mitochondria that
reacts directly with oxygen, and that is often rate
limiting, is cytochrome c oxidase.

This enzyme is dependent on the thyroid
hormone and is inhibited by nitric oxide, carbon
monoxide, estrogen, polyunsaturated fatty acids,
serotonin, excess or free iron, ionizing radiation,
and many toxins, including bacterial endotoxin.
Red light, which passes easily through the tissues,
reactivates the enzyme, which slowly loses its
function during darkness.

Estrogen impairs the mitochondria in multiple
ways, including blocking the function of
cytochrome oxidase, decreasing the activity of
ATP synthase, increasing heme oxygenase which
produces carbon monoxide and free iron, damag-
ing mitochondrial DNA, and shifting metabolism
from glucose oxidation to fat oxidation, especially
by inhibiting the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydro-
genase complex. These changes, including the
loss of cytochrome oxidase, are seen in the
Alzheimer's brain. The fact that this kind of
energy impairment can be produced by estrogen
doesn't imply that estrogen is the cause, since
many other things can cause similar effects--
radiation, aluminum, and endotoxin, for example.

But it happens that in the Alzheimer's brain
there is an increase of the enzyme aromatase,
which synthesizes estrogen. Mice can be geneti-
cally modified to lack the aromatase gene, and
this kind of mouse was crossed with a mouse that
develops a condition similar to Alzheimer's
disease. These mice didn't deteriorate mentally as
they aged, as related mice with the aromatase gene
did, and tests found that no estrogen could be
detected in their serum or brain (McAllister, et al.,
2010). While the "Alzheimer's" mice with the
ability to produce estrogen had 50% less testeros-
terone than normal, the mutant mice unable to
produce estrogen had more testosterone in their
brains and serum than either the normal mice or
the Alzheimer's mice.

Testosterone has intrinsic cell-protective
effects, including opposition to estrogen and corti-
sol, but in the presence of aromatase, it can be

converted to estrogen. Progesterone has the same
basic cell-protective effects, but its metabolites in
the brain, the neurosteroids, are specific neuropro-
tectors. DHEA also has brain-protective effects.

All of these cell-protective steroids have a
negative feedback relation to the luteinizing
hormone, LH, that is, as they are increased by its
action, they inhibit the secretion of LH. Estrogen
has a positive feedback relation to the gonadotrop-
ins, meaning that a little estrogen can stimulate an
increase of LH and FSH, leading to greater
' production of estrogen. This means that a
deficiency of progesterone, relative to estrogen,
will tend to cause increased LH, unless other
factors change. Both FSH and LH are generally
increased at menopause and in Alzheimer's
disease. LH increases about 3 to 4-fold in both
men and women with aging (Casadesus, et al.,
2006), but it increases more (in both the brain and
serum) in Alzheimer's disease.

The increased LH in Alzheimer's disease
(rather than the low ratio of progesterone to estro-
gen) is being discussed as a basic cause of
Alzheimer's disease. A drug that lowers LH
(leuprolide) decreases the formation of amyloid
and improves cognitive functions in mice, and it
has been suggested that the use of leuprolide in
prostate cancer patients might account for their
lower incidence of degenerative nervous diseases.
LH is present in increased amounts in both the
serum and nerves of Alzheimer's patients, and in
vitro, it increases the formation of amyloid
(Meethal, et al., 2005). Transgenic mice that
produce increased amounts of LH perform poorly
in maze tests, but similar mice that lack the LH
receptor perform normally (Casadesus, et al.,
2007).

LH, like other pituitary hormones, has a
variety of pro-inflammatory effects, for example
in rheumatoid arthritis and lung inflammation.
DHEA and testosterone can reduce inflammation
and lower LH, but both of those can be converted
to estrogen by aromatase. Progesterone, however,
has a very broad spectrum of antiinflammatory
actions, including the inhibition of LH, and its
metabolites (the "neurosteroids) also have various
protective effects in the brain. One of the metabo-
lites is able to inactivate the aromatase enzyme

(Pasqualini and Chetrite, 2008). Although they are
called neurosteroids, they are also protective
against cancer and are an important part of the
progestational system in pregnancy.

Progesterone's antiinflammatory effects
include the inhibition of the enzymes that form
prostaglandins, overlapping with aspirin in that
function. However, unlike aspirin, progesterone
also activates an enzyme that degrades prosta-
glandins. Besides being important amplifiers of
inflammatory reactions, the prostaglandins inhibit
mitochondrial energy production (Cherkasskaia,
et al., 1982) and activate aromatase and estrogen
synthesis. Estrogen activates the formation of
prostaglandins (Toda, et al., 2012) and inhibits the
enzyme that degrades them (Chang and Tai,
1985). Progesterone also inhibits the synthesis of
nitric oxide (Wang, et al., 2012); its inhibition of
nitric oxide protects mitochondrial respiration
(Deniselle, et al., 2012). Since estrogen increases
the production of prostaglandins and nitric oxide,
and decreases the degradation of prostaglandins,
progesterone's various estrogen-inhibiting actions
are a very important part of its protective effects.

More than 40 years ago D.G. Stein started
studying brain injury in animals and the possibil-
ity of preventing or reducing its long range
effects. For more than 20 years he didn't find
anything that helped, but in 1992 a student, Robin
Roof, did experiments showing that progesterone
injections reduced or prevented brain edema after
a brain contusion. Pseudopregnancy, in which
there is a high ratio of progesterone to estrogen,
also prevented brain edema. An oxidative break-
down product of arachidonic acid, isoprostane,
associated with dementia was reduced by 2/3 in
the animals treated with progesterone (Roof, et
al., 1997). In 2000 and 2001, both Roof and Stein
published some articles suggesting that estrogen
might also be beneficial, but after the 2002 WHI
announcement that estrogen increased dementia, I
haven't seen any more estrogen publications from
either of them. Referring later to the early studies,
Roof said she "didn't look at estrogen during that
time because it did not seem to be neuroprotective
in that model (at least in terms of edema)."

Brain edema, which is an early response to
any brain injury, is seldom discussed as a feature

of Alzheimer's dementia, but MRI studies clearly
show that brain water is disproportionately intra-
cellular, meaning that the cells are swollen. A
protein called "aquaporin-4" is associated with
brain injury and edema, and it is increased by
estrogen, and decreased by progesterone.

Progesterone's very large effect on oxidative
damage in the animal studies was very important,
because the isoprostanes and prostaglandins are
now known to be closely associated with
Alzheimer's disease and other age related neurode-
generative diseases. The spontaneously formed
isoprostanes were discovered in 1992, and it was
several years before their role in degenerative
diseases began to be studied.

Other new knowledge of the ways in which
polyunsaturated fats break down has become
available in this same period. For example,
acrolein, which is elevated in Alzheimer's disease,
is from 10 to 100 times more reactive than some
of the better known oxidative fragments, and it is
formed mainly from omega-3 polyunsatured fatty
acids, especially DHA and EPA. It inhibits respi-
ration in brain mitochondria, damages proteins,
forming "advanced glycation end-products"
(Pietkiewicz, et al., 2011), and is toxic to brain
cells. It inhibits the uptake of glutamate (Lovell, et
al., 2000) which would contribute to excitotoxity
to nerve cells. (Polyunsaturated fatty acids and
estrogen tend to promote excitotoxity in other
ways, too.)

Acrolein's self-stimulating production from
DHA is another factor that could account for the
predominance of Alzheimer's disease in women,
since, under the influence of estrogen, women
accumulate significantly more DHA than men
(Giltay, et al., 2004), and similar effects can be
seen in animal studies (McNamara, et al., 2008).

This is probably related to the increased
vitamin E requirement caused by estrogen (Briggs,
1975), and to the ability of estrogen to increase the
age pigment, lipofuscin (Harris, 1966; Graham,
1968; MA'Yntzing and Nilsson, 1972; Karkare, et
al., 1995). The shorter chain fatty acids of
coconut oil are more easily oxidized for energy
than long chain fatty acids, and their saturation
makes them resistant to the random oxidation
produced by inflammation, so they don't support

the production of acrolein or age pigment; along
with their reported antiinflammatory effects, these
properties might be responsible for their benefi-
cial effects that have been seen in Alxheimer's
disease.

The myelin content is decreased in
Alzheimer's disease, and progesterone is known to
stimulate its resynthesis by the oligodendrocytes;
the neurosteroids are known to be involved in the
regeneration, survival, and function of brain cells
(Schumacher, et al., 1996). Cholesterol, which is
the precursor for pregnenolone, progesterone, and
DHEA, is lost from the white matter in
Alzheimer's disease (Roher, et al, 2002), and
replacing cholesterol in the brain can have protec-

_tive effects against the deposition of amyloid

(Sponne, et al., 2004). Thyroid hormone is
involved in the synthesis of the neurosteroids, the
repair of myelin, and all the essential brain
functions, as well as systemic regulation of
hormones.

Although the growth hormone is one of the
hormones increased by stress and estrogens which
produce free fatty acids by lipolysis, it's generally
assumed that it decreases in Alzheimer's disease,
as it does in normal aging. However, it's known
that somatostatin, the inhibitor of growth hormone
secretion, is decreased (by about 50%) in
Alzheimer's disease. Normal people have very
low serum growth hormone in the morning, but
Alzheimer patients’ growth hormone is high in the
morning. Somatostatin is inhibited by estrogen
and serotonin, which are both increased in
Alzheimer's disease, and hypothyroidism could
also contribute to the lack of somatostatin
(Baldini, et al., 1992). The deficiency of somato-
statin probably contributes to the increased TSH
as well as growth hormone found in Alzheimer's
disease (Christie, et al., 1987). Decreased T3, the
active thyroid hormone, in the Alzheimer's brain
is another factor in the elevated TSH.

Other lipolytic hormones that are increased in
Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative
diseases include ACTH, cortisol, and adrenalin.
Growth hormone stimulates the release of
serotonin (and reduces dopamine), and serotonin
in turn stimulates growth hormone release.

The maladaptive sequence, starting from stress
or hypothyroidism, would typically involve
increased absorption of endotoxin, leading to
interference with mitochondrial respiration, a shift
to fat oxidation, inflammation, and the increase of
a wide range of stress hormones. Each of these
steps happens to interfere with the production of
progesterone, leading to increased LH.

Even a seemingly minor brain trauma can start
a process that leads to permanent and progressive
impairment. A brain injury increases the likeli-
hood of later developing Alzheimer's disease or
Parkinson's disease. A mild concussion, or exposure
to ionizing radiation, or even chronic exposure to
"weak" electromagnetic fields, can activate these same
mechanisms of inflammation and deterioration. These
after-effects involve the same mechanisms as the
radiation bystander effects--a spreading of inflamma-
tory processes and edema. Strokes, tumors, and infec-
tions also typically activate the same processes of
inflammation and swelling.

Although just supplementing with progester-
one and/or thyroid can sometimes produce rapid
improvement in brain function, it would be
reasonable to correct as many of the metabolic
defects as possible, starting with the elimination
of polyunsaturated fats from the diet, and eating
an antiinflammatory diet, low in iron, phosphate,
antithyroid or estrogenic substances, and starches,
with fruits and saturated fats as the main calorie
sources. Aspirin, vitamin K (essential for brain
lipid synthesis and growth _ regulation),
magnesium, niacinamide, caffein, antihistamines
and antiserotonin drugs (such as cyproheptadine),
antibiotics (especially antiinflammatory antibiotics
such as minocycline) and diuretics such as aceta-
zolamide are supplements that are likely to be
beneficial. Vitamin D should be measured,
because a deficiency can impair brain functions.
(The correct blood test for vitamin D status is
25(OH)vitamin D, not 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D.)
Small amounts of baking soda, or rebreathing in a
bag to increase carbon dioxide, can increase blood
circulation to the brain.

Getting a generous amount of light on the head
has beneficial effects on mental functions, by
increasing the activity of cytochrome oxidase
(Rojas, et al., 2012) and reducing inflammation.
Cytochrome oxidase in the brain can also be

increased by mental stimulation, learning, and
moderate exercise, but excessive exercise or the
wrong kind of exercise ("eccentric") can lower it
(Aguiar, et al., 2007, 2008), probably by increas-
ing the stress hormones and free fatty acids.
Sedentary living at high altitude has beneficial
effects on mitochondria similar to moderate
exercise at sea level (He, et al., 2012).

REFERENCES

Obstet Gynecol 2000 Apr 1;95(4 Suppl 1):S16. Effect
of serotonin in the regulation of postmenopausal
gonadotropin. Ali AF, Fateen B, Ezzet A, Badawy H,
Ramadan A, El-tobge A.

Neurosci Lett. 2007 Oct 22;426(3):171-4. Mitochon-
drial ITV complex and brain neurothrophic derived
factor responses of mice brain cortex after downiill
training. Aguiar AS Jr, Tuon T, Pinho CA, Silva LA,
Andreazza AC, Kapezinski F, Quevedo J, Streck EL, Pinho
RA.

Neurochem Res. 2008 Jan;33(1):51-8. Intense
exercise induces mitochondrial dysfunction in mice
brain. Aguiar AS Jr, Tuon T, Pinho CA, Silva LA,
Andreazza AC, Kapczinski F, Quevedo J, Streck EL, Pinho
RA.

Exp Clin Endocrinol. 1992;99(2):80-3. Inhibitory
effect of somatostatin on abnormal GH response to TRH
in primary hypothyroidism. Baldini M, Catania A, Orsatti
A, Manfredi MG, Motta P, Cantalamessa L.

Am J Clin Nutr. 1975 May;28(5):436. Letter: Vitamin
E status and oral contraceptives. Briggs M.

Drugs R D. 2006;7(3):187-93. The estrogen myth:
potential use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone
agonists for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Casadesus G, Garrett MR, Webber KM, Hartzler AW,
Atwood CS, Perry G, Bowen RL, Smith MA.

Mol Neurodegener. 2007 Jan 22;2:2. Increased
isoprostane and prostaglandin are prominent in neurons
in Alzheimer disease. Casadesus G, Smith MA, Basu S,
Hua J, Capobianco DE, Siedlak SL, Zhu X, Perry G.

Biochem Pharmacol. 1985 Jun 15;34(12):2073-6.
Induction of a decrease in renal NAD+-dependent
15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase activity by
estradiol in rats. Chang WC, Tai HH.

Vopr Med Khim. 1982 May-Jun;28(3):110-4. [Effect
of prostaglandin E2 on energy metabolism in isolated rat
liver mitochondria] [Article in Russian] Cherkasskaia MD,
Matulis AA, lasaitis AA.

Br J Psychiatry. 1987 May;150:674-81. Characteristic
plasma hormone changes in Alzheimer's disease. Christie
JE, Whalley LJ, Bennie J, Dick H, Blackburn IM, Black-
wood DH, Fink G.

J Neurochem. 2012 Jul;122(1):185-95. Progesterone
prevents mitochondrial dysfunction in the spinal cord of
wobbler mice. Deniselle MC, Carreras MC, Garay L,

Gargiulo-Monachelli G, Meyer M, Poderoso JJ, De Nicola
AF.

Am J Clin Nutr. 2004 Nov;80(5): 1167-74. Docosahex-
aenoic acid concentrations are higher in women than in
men because of estrogenic effects. Giltay EJ, Gooren LJ,
Toorians AW, Katan MB, Zock PL.

Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1968 Oct 15;102(4):490-2.
Lipofuscin: identification and localization in monkey
uterus. Graham CE.

Arch Pathol. 1966 Oct;82(4):353-5. A lipofuscin-like
pigment in the kidneys of estrogen-treated rats. Harris C.

Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2012 Jun;44(6):1013-20. Effects
of hypoxic living and training on gene expression in an
obese rat model. He Z, Feng L, Zhang L, Lu Y, Xu J, Lucia
A.
Histol Histopathol. 1995 Jul;10(3):619-32. Effects of
sex steroids on the Syrian hamster liver. Karkare S,
Adamiec-Beyga E, Gilloteaux J.

Brain Res. 2008 Jui 24;1221:93-7. Increased electrical
and metabolic activity in the dorsal raphe nucleus of
Parkinsonian rats. Kaya AH, Vlamings R, Tan S, Lim LW,
Magill PJ, Steinbusch HW, Visser-Vandewalle V, Sharp T,
Temel Y.

Free Radic Biol Med. 2000 Oct 15;29(8):714-20.
Acrolein, a product of lipid peroxidation, inhibits glucose
and glutamate uptakein primary neuronal cultures.
Lovell MA, Xie C; Markesbery WR.

J Neurosci. 2010 May 26;30(21):7326-34. Genetic
targeting aromatase in male amyloid precursor protein
transgenic mice down-regulates beta-secretase (BACE1)
and prevents Alzheimer-like pathology and cognitive
impairment, McAllister C, Long J, Bowers A, Walker A,
Cao P, Honda S, Harada N, Staufenbiel M, Shen Y, Li R.

Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2008 Nov 27. Gender
differences in rat erythrocyte and brain docosahexaenoic
acid composition: Role of ovarian hormones and dietary
omega-3 fatty acid composition. McNamara RK, Able J,
Jandacek R, Rider T, Tso P.

Endocrine. 2005 Apr;26(3):317-26. The gonadotropin
connection in Alzheimer's disease. Meethal SV, Smith
MA, Bowen RL, Atwood CS.

Z Krebsforsch Klin Onkol Cancer Res Clin Oncol.
1972;77(2):166-70. Lipofuscin in malignant and
non-malignant human prostatic tissue. Muntzing J,
Nilsson T.

Anticancer Res. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4B):2129-33. The
anti-aromatase effect of progesterone and of its natural
metabolites 20alpha-and Salpha-dihydroprogesterone in
the MCF-7aro breast cancer cell line. Pasqualini JR,
Chetrite G.

Protein J. 2011 Mar;30(3):149-58. Glycation of the
muscle-specific enolase by reactive carbonyls: effect of
temperature and the protection role of carnosine,
pyridoxamine and phosphatidylserimne. Pictkiewicz J,
Bronowicka-SzydeA,ko A, Dzierzba K, Danielewicz R,
Gamian A.

Biochemistry. 2002 Sep 17;41(37):11080-90.
Increased A beta peptides and reduced cholesterol and

myelin proteins characterize white matter degeneration
in Alzheimer's disease. Roher AE, Weiss N, Kokjohn TA,
Kuo YM, Kalback W, Anthony J, Watson D, Luehrs DC,
Sue L, Walker D, Emmerling M, Goux W, Beach T.

J Alzheimers Dis. 2012 Jan 1;32(3):741-52. Low-level
light therapy improves cortical metabolic capacity and
memory retention. Rojas JC, Bruchey AK, Gonzalez-Lima
F.

Mol Chem Neuropathol. 1997 May;31(1):1-11. Proges-
terone protects against lipid peroxidation following
traumatic brain injury in rats. Roof RL, Hoffman SW,
Stein DG. [The brains of progesterone treated rats contained
approximately one-third of the 8-isoPGF2 alpha found in
oil-treated rats. ]

Dev Neurosci. 1996;18(1-2):6-21. Development and
regeneration of the nervous system: a role for neuroster-
oids. Schumacher M, Robel P, Baulieu EE.

FASEB J. 2004 May;18(7):836-8. Membrane choles-
terol interferes with neuronai apoptosis induced by
soluble oligomers but not fibrils of amyloid-beta peptide.
Sponne I, Fifre A, Koziel V, Oster T, Olivier JL, Pillot T.

Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2012 Oct 15;362(1-2):176-82.
17{?-Estradiol is critical for the preovulatory induction
of prostaglandin E(2) synthesis in mice. Toda K, Ono M,
Yuhki K, Ushikubi F, Saibara T.

Endocr Rev 1993 Aug;14(4):480-93, Serotonin, a
neurotransmitter involved in the regulation of luteiniz-
ing hormone release. Vitale ML, Chiocchio SR.

Acta Physiol Pharmacol Latinoam. 1985;35(4):473-9.
Serotonin stimulates gonadotrophin release by acting
directly on the median eminence. Vitale ML, de las
Nieves Parisi M, Chiocchio SR, Tramezzani JH.

Zhongguo Ying Yong Sheng Li Xue Za Zhi. 2012
May;28(3):253-4, 262. [Progesterone exerts neuroprotec-
tive effect on hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy-induced
brain damage via inhibition expression of inducible
nitric oxide synthase and nitric oxide production].
[Article in Chinese] Wang XY, Li XJ, Li DL, Wang CR,
Guo XP.

3G ie oi oR Eo oo oR og Ko aK RK

