ad aed <2Te yy BUR TIAHAKR CRD finer Jt

ib. lee Wd flaws a ot!

(

STH

I) DeSths®) HSA QR Recrpie'
+ ch nw Polo hoops (Alkersie Silepsy

Ray Peat's

Copyright 2000

Progesterone and ideas of
“balance” in “hormone
replacement therapy”: The
importance of inhibition

Because I came to progesterone research after
involvement in other biological issues such as the
study of the effects of nuclear fallout and ionizing
radiation on the brain, rather than as a physician, I
had no commitment to any of the ideas which had
grown up with the pharmaceutical industry, and
that have become so basic to the professions’
understanding of the actions of drugs and
hormones. For example, receptors are supposed
to be part of our genetic constitution, making us
able to respond to drugs, poisons, hormones,
infections, allergens, nervous stimuli, odors, etc.

A substance, by binding to its receptor, sets in
motion a biological response. With stimuli such
as odors and adrenalin, there is a certain logic to
the situation—with prolonged stimulation, fatigue
sets in, we adapt to a certain level of stimulation,
and it then takes a larger amount of the stimulus to
“vproduce a_ response. The receptors are
“desensitized.”

But if a stimulus evoked, or increased the
quantity of, its own receptor, increasing the
tissue’s sensitivity, there would be a tendency for
things to get out of control... What could be the
biological meaning of such a situation?)

Imagine applying this principle to various
kinds of receptors—any odor would tend to
increase until it became overpowering, the heart
would be accelerated by smaller and smaller
stimuli, or would require stronger and stronger
impulses from the vagal nerve to restrain it.
Allergy represents what happens when a stimu-
us creates increased sensitivity to itself;
autoimmunity and lymphoma could represent

Raymond Peat PO Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

Derhe. dy hedbak nett’ Gmbh for

Newsletter

March 2000

similar processes of positive-feedback, increasing
responses to a given level of stimulation. Excito-
toxicity, epilepsy, movement disorders, and mania
are other examples of what happens when
Gy negative (inhibitory) feedback fails) (Estrogen’s
interactions with other excitatory processes, such
as allergy, will be considered in other articles; see
Kalogeromitros, et al., 1995; Ahmed, et al., 1989.)
Estrogen’s action on many tissues increases
the tissue’s ability to bind estrogen; estrogen
induces its own “receptor,” in a_ self-
stimulating, self-destabilizing process. This is
unlike the behavior of other “receptors,” such
as the adrenalin receptor, which is inactivated
by increased exposure to adrenalin. This
unusual interaction between tissue and
hormone requires careful examination.

For example, estrogen’s immediate effect on a
responsive tissue is to cause it to take up water,
~and to increase its ratio of sodium to potassium;

these changes lead to depolarization-activation of
nerve, muscle, and some glandular cells, and of
initiation of growth and cell division in other cel!
types. If the stimulation to growth process contin-
ued unchecked, or even accelerated, it’s obvious
that form and proportion and organization would
quickly be lost. Similarly with the other forms of
stimulatiion—activated responses must not
continue beyond the organism’s need for them.

Estrogenic stimulation, like an allergic

reaction, would tend to increase progressively,
if it weren’t for the antiestrogens. The antiin-
flammatory effect of the glucocorticoids on an
allergic reaction, preventing anaphylactic
shock, are analogous to the effects of the
antiestrogens, blockin , estrogenic stimulation.
The analogy is especially interesting, when we
consider that Selye characterized estrogen’s
effect as similar to the shock phase of the stress
reaction, and that antihistamines are generally

él] > f Pas shper 7

— ¢

OST Toeneme TSH wd PL RCH iEaUL +
Grog e CIE PUYGTIGN ™mear Blveocar jemas( ee

—

Alleria

Hi esy Fising
Pepeccck & la Qe ponse

antiestrogenic, and antiestrogens are generally
antihistaminic.

Since the actual levels of estrogen increase
(Musey, et al., 1987; also see Rodriguez, et al.,
1993 and O’Rourke, et al., 1996) during a_
woman’s reproductive years, and then often act
almost unopposed during a time around
menopause (Nencioni and Polvani, 1985), and
tend to increase progressively in aging men, and in
both sexes during stress,{we need to know what
our protective systems are, for interrupting estro-
gen’s excitatory actions on a great variety of

“tissues. i]

] ) Oné€ of progesterone’s effects is toldegradg and

eliminate; estrogen receptors (Brown and _.
MacLusky, 1994; Medlock, et al., 1994; Okulicz, zhirsutism and other masculine traits when it.

Taher Tstimy Suyre
‘anlrbr tien ) faced le Stimv gol Tees sinha

“synergic” with estrogen than the inhibitory
impulses of the vagus nerve are synergic with the
excitatory adrenergic influences. The FDA, in its
service to industry, has classified progesterone as
a “progestin,” defining the category only in terms

of an effect on the uterus. No other pseudo-
scientific concept exceeds this in its harmful
consequences.

But to describe progesterone as an antiestro-
gen is meaningful only to the extent that we
understand the nature of estrogenic stimulation.

Estrogen, as an easy derivative of testosterone,
is deeply involved in the establishment of mascu--
line features; even in mature women, estrogen -
excess (progesterone deficiency) can nroduce

et al., 1993; Selcer and Leavitt, 1988). This is —overstimulates the adrenal glands. As a goad (the -
clearly an antiestrogenic action, and many people ~“term estrogen is based on estrus, gadfly, intense

like to say the opposite, that progesterone induces
estrogen receptors, simply because the idea suits
their their doctrines of synergy, balance, and more
basic ideas of genetic constitution, the nature of
gender, etc. But the facts are so clear that they
will have to look elsewhere for something to
support their orientation.

Recently it has been found that estrogen recep-
tors are degraded by proteasomes] (Nawaz, et al.,
1999; Alarid, et al., 1999). This could relate to
the fact that unsaturated fatty acids promote the
retention of estrogen in the cell, since unsaturated
fatty acids often inhibit proteolytic e es.

By reducing the cell’s ability to bind estrogen,

progesterone acts_as an festrogen repellant} But
it also ctivates enzymes which
physically/cheinically detoxify estrogen, convert-
ing it to a water-soluble sulfated form, in which it
tends to be expelled from Cells and to be excreted

(s / in the urine. On the systemic level, progesterone

helps to activate the liver’s detoxifying systems, in
which other types of enzymes modify estrogen,
reducing its activity and preparing it for excretion,
in both the bile and the urine.

One way of looking at progesterone is that it is
an antiestrogen. The estrogen industry doesn’t
like that concept, and prefers to think of progester-
one as an estrogen synergist. But if its effect is to
interrupt estrogen’s excitatory actions, and to
eliminate estrogen from the tissues, it is no more ©

ES ty) 4. a Tt Hoa T wo Fo trace! I tanterce/

Les.

stimulus, goad), estrogen initiates activity in cells
and systems; depending on the organism’s
resources, that stimulus will be restrained before it
gets out of control.

Does the specific outcome of stimulation take
its direction from estrogen, or rather from the
ways in which estrogen is neutralized and detoxi-
fied? There are many antiestrogenic systems
thyroid, progesterone, _ testosterone,
sulfation, methylation, glucuronidation, antiin-
flammatory factors, etc.)\ and the varied, specific
nature of the organism’s response to stimulation is
probably sufficient to account for the different
outcomes, such as masculinity or feminity,
tumefaction or growth, alertness or mania.

How specific is estrogenic stimulation itself?
Asphyxia, radiation injury, vitamin deficiencies,
and other harmful stimuli, closely mimic the
estrogenic excitation/shock response. (Boling, et
al., 1939:Mandl and Zuckerman, 1956; Biskind,
1946.) Estrogenic activation, with the uptake of
water and the loss of potassium (relative to intra-
cellular sodium), is probably thé simplest reaction
a cell is capable of, and any specificity that can be
found in the process is the result of pre-existing
cellular conditions, or of defensive reactions of
the organism. Depending on its place in the life
of an individual, estrogen can either masculin- }
ize or feminize, produce breasts or whiskers.

X
boeP$ 96.

| Grid Kod 1" Collar a (YMA THAL

The similarity of radiation injury to estrogenic
stimulation has led to studies showing some radia-
tion protection from progesterone; similar protec-
tive actions of progesterone can be seen for other
types of injury. Thyroid, and other antiestrogens,
also have a wide spectrum of protective actions,
against radiation, asphyxia, carcinogens, etc.

I think the only way to approach the
general nature of cellular excitation is to see it
in terms of the basic properties of the living
material. Only something as general and basic
as the cell’s state of hydration, its “wetness,”
can account for the coherent way in which cells
are activated, with related processes happening
at all levels, from chromosomes, to mitochon-
dria and enzymes, the structural protein
meshwork of the cytoskeleton, and sensory
functions.

Cells use something like metaphor or analogy
(as previously discussed in relation to J. Cairns’
work, and e.g., in observations such as those of
Smith, et al., 1990) to achieve coordination over
long distances, and a medium of coordination and
cooperation is needed; cell water, with its mch
structural potential, provides that medium.

What do these perspectives imply for medical
practice?

First, that the issue of “estrogen defiiciency”
must be weighed very carefully. 35 years ago,
men were given estrogen “to protect them from
heart attacks,” and the treatment increased the
incidence of heart problems; several new
campaigns are underway to use estrogens to
protect both men and women from heart attacks.

arguments for “car opr ee m

cnn Similar campaigns, contrary to
facts, are being developed in “brain protection,”

and other imaginary benefits of estrogen. Consis-
tently, it has been found that the “positive results”
found among women who take estrogen aren’t
scientifically valid, since the groups were selected

in such a way that the women who took estrogen
were healthier to begin with than the women who
didn’t take estrogen.

In the light of such imagined protective effects
of estrogen, supplements are being recommended,
either without any measurement of estrogen, or on
the basis of finding a “low level” of estrogen,
without taking any of the opposing or balancing
factors into account. The idea of “estrogen
deficiency,” like that of “estrogen’s protective
action,” is completely without scientific founda-
tion.

Any idea of balance suggests that there could
be an imbalance in either direction. The harm

done by unopposed estrogenic stimulation is clear.

elaxation ar ! i“) There —
been i no , publications of a similar effect in humans
(largely because of editorial policies, rather than
from a lack of experimental evidence), but if there
were, the anesthetized condition would have to be
characterized as being harmful only in the behav-
ioral sense, since tissues aren't harmed

to increase with concentration, right up to the pressure in the low range indicating efficient

absorptive limits of the cells. (The biological
protection, however, at the upper extreme,
includes sedation and anesthesia, and isn’t
compatible with ordinary function, and so, outside
of the context of pregnancy (in which sedation and
anesthesia are appropriate), these can be thought
of as “side effects.” Since they are part of proges-
terone’s intrinsic function, though, the idea of
“side effect” has to be understood as “collateral to
the intended pharmacological effect.” I think the
idea of “side effect” connotes a doctrine of “one
substance-one effect,” something the drug indus-
try promotes.)

propased that biological energy, differentiation,
and respiratory function are integrated in such a
way that certain things $ stabilize/increase them, or

- mac

straining ~

i ES 6 a the pulse

cxthiowtatie: peated

circulation.

“Therapeutically, we can think in terms of what
the organism is doing in response to its
challenges, and support those processes of restora-
tion, adaptation, inhibition, and reconstruction.

Because excitation or stress is a simple
thing--it is any disturbance of the living state’s
guiescence--radiation damage, asphyxia, nutri-
tional deficiencies, various poisons, carcinogens,
and irritants can imitate the actions of estrogen.
Or, looking at estrogen’s meaning in evolution,
we could say that estrogen imitates the natural
menaces that life confronts, so that the processes
of regeneration can be managed and integrated
into the life plans of the organisms.

This means that antiestrogenic strategies are
appropnate under a great variety of conditions.
Whatever the challenge, a successful response
will restore the organism to a new, high energy
state of readiness.

s casera —

wuand
re

tion has such generalized 1 properties that noxious
events and a natural hormone produce similar
reactions, what kind of role does stimulation play
elsewhere in the organism?

The interaction of energy and structure in the
cell means that an energy deficit becomes excita-
tory. In the case of nutrition, this has been
worked out i in n relotively great detail. Hypoglyce-

Need and arousal mobilize various functional
systems to satisfy the need. Pavlov, working on
these issues, knew that it was essential to answer

the question, “what stimulates the activities that
we consider uniquely human?” The exploratory
reflex is activated by novelty, by anything which
isn’t understood. The need/desire for freedom
and understanding has the same basic pattern as

the other needs, and it has apparently evolved by
differentiation from the basic sensitivity of the
living material.

The relatively mild stimulation of novelty,
when combined with meeting basic needs and
preventing irrelevant, stressful stimulation, can be
therapeutic. For example, in a digestive distur-
bance, therapeutic stimulation might be achieved
by something as mild as beef broth, acting by
intrinsic (unconditional) chemical processes, or by
some simple alteration in the way the food is

prepared, or a change in the mealtime atmosphere. —

The therapeutic effect of laughter, which is
produced by surprise, can be seen in terms of a
basic organismic process of organizing resources,
creatively adapting to produce a new state of
readiness.

In outline, a benign stimulation is one which
can be met with adequate energy, with good
humor, and with an adequate amount of progester-
one and related chemical resources.

All of the information that has accumulated
about estrogen in the last century leads to the view
that it is the organism’s means of producing a
momentary and localized imbalance, goading
cells into activity.

An important factor in the integration of
this momentary imbalance into the life of the
organism is the manner in which destabilizing
excitation and the restoration of stability, e.g.,
estrogen and progesterone production, relate to
each other. Estrogen stimulates the formation
of progesterone, and progesterone lowers the
concentration of estrogen. (Liu, et al., 1997)

Whether we consider pregnancy, or bone
metabolism, or the health of the brain or the circu-
latory system, no situation has been identified in
which the “balance of estrogen and progesterone”
can be improved by the use of estrogen supple-
mentation. But there is a tremendous amount of
information showing that reproduction and the
health of bones, brain, and circulatory system, and
many other functions, can be improved by anties-
trogenic approaches. The pharmaceutical industry
is trying to exploit this information, by reclassify-
ing their antiestrogenic drugs as “designer estro-
gens.” But the body already has its proper array of

antiestrogenic strategies, which can be supported
in many safe and economical ways.

. REFERENCES

Biskind, M.S., Nutritional therapy of endocrine disturbances,
Vitamins and Hormones 4, 147-170.

Boling, J.L., et al., Post-parturittional heat responses of
new-born and adult guinea pigs. Data on parturition. Proc. Soc.
Exp. Biol. Med. 42, 128.

Rodriguez, P; Fernandez-Galaz, C; Tejero, A.
Controlled neonatal exposure to estrogens: A suitable tool
for reproductive aging studies in the female rat. Biology of
Reproduction, v.49, n.2, (1993): 387-392.

O'Rourke, M T; Lipson, S F; Ellison, P T. Ovarian
function in the latter half of the reproductive lifespan.
American Journal of Human Biology, v.8, n.6, (1996):
751-759.

Mech Ageing Dev 1990 Nov;56(2):107-15 Investiga-
tion of the effect of hydrogen peroxide on the chromosomes
of young and elderly individuals. Smith M de A, Bortolotto
MH, Melaragno MI, Toniolo Neto.

Am J Epidemiol 1996 May 15;143(10):971-8. Prior to
use of estrogen replacement therapy, are users healthier
than nonusers? Matthews KA, Kuller LH, Wing RR,
Meilahn EN, Plantinga P Department of Psychiatry, Univer-
sity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. “Women who elect
to use ERT have a better cardiovascular risk factor
profile prior to the use of ERT than do women who
subsequently do not use this treatment during the
menopause, which supports the hypothesis that part of
the apparent benefit associated with the use of ERT is
due to preexisting characteristics of women who use
ERT.”

Am Heart J 1998 Jul;136(1):115-24 Comparison of the
Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS)
cohort with women with coronary disease from the National
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey Ill (NHANES
li. Herrington DM, Fong J, Sempos CT, Black DM,
Schrott HG, Rautaharju P, Bachorik PS, Blumenthal R,
Khan 58, Wenger NK Internal Medicine/Cardioiogy and
Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest University School of
Medicine. “There were fewer current smokers in HERS
(13%) than in the NHANES cohort (21.7%, p = 0.05).
Similarly, a history of hypertension was less prevalent in
HERS (58.6%) than in the NHANES cohort (69.3%, p =
0.03). Women with fasting triglyceride levels >3.39
mmol/L or fasting glucose levels >16.6 mmol/L were
excluded from HERS, resulting in fewer diabetics
(22.9% vs 29.5%, p = 0.26) and lower serum triglyceride
levels (1.88 mmol/L ys 2.25 mmol/L, p = 0.19) in HERS
versus the NHANES cohort.”

Mol Endocrino!} 1999 Sep;13(9):1522-34.
Proteasome-mediated proteolysis of estrogen receptor: a
novel component in autologous down-regulation, Alarid
ET, Bakopoulos N, Solodin N The Department of

Physiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison. “Regulation
of estrogen receptor (ER) concentration is a key compo-
nent in limiting estrogen responsiveness in target cells.”
“Proteolytic regulation of ER by the proteasome is not
limited to pituitary lactotrope cells but is also opera-
tional in MCF-7 breast cancer cells, suggesting that this
may be a common regulatory pathway used by estrogen.
These studies describe a nongenomic action of estrogen
that involves nuclear ER: rapid proteolysis of ER
protein via a proteasome-mediated pathway.”

J Neuroendocrinol 1995 Feb;7(2):119-25 Regulation of
estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor messenger
ribonucleic acid by estrogen in the brain of the whiptail
lizard (Cnemidophorus uniparens). Young LJ, Nag PK,
Crews D. “First we determined a dosage of 17 beta-estradio!
3-benzoate (0.5 micrograms) which reliably induced recep-
tive behavior in ovariectomized C. uniparens. Then using in
situ hybridization, we examined the effects of that dosage on
the expression of estrogen receptor and progesterone recep-
tor mRNA in the brain 24 h after injection. Estrogen treat-
ment resulted in a significant up-regulation of estrogen
receptor mRNA expression in the ventromedial nucleus
of the hypothalamus and torus semicircularis, down-
regulation of estrogen receptor MRNA expression in the
lateral septum, and no change in the periventricular nuclei of
the hypothalamus, the periventricular nucleus of the preoptic
area, and the dorsal hypothalamus. The same dosage
resulted in increased progesterone receptor mRNA
expression in the ventromedial! nucleus of the hypothala-
mus and the periventricular nucleus of the preoptic area;
no significant changes in progesterone receptor mRNA
expression were observed in the periventricular nuclei of the
hypothalamus or the torus semicircularis, although the
differences in progesterone receptor expression in the torus
semicircularis approached statistical significance.”

Mol Cell Neurosci 1994 Jun;5(3):283-90. Progesterone
modulation of estrogen receptors in microdissected
regions of the rat hypothalamus. Brown TJ, MacLusky
NJ “One mechanism whereby progesterone opposes the
regulatory actions of estrogen in the brain may include
the down-regulation of estrogen receptors. A previous
study has shown a small decrease in estrogen binding in
the combined preoptic area-hypothalamic area in
response to progesterone treatment.” “A significant
decrease in estrogen binding was found in the ventrome-
dial nucleus of the femaie but not the male. A significant
effect of progesterone treatment was found in the
periventricular preoptic area of the male.”

Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 1994 Feb;205(2):146-53.
Progesterone and estradiol interaction in the regulation
of rat uterine weight and estrogen receptor concentra-
tion. Medlock KL, Forrester TM, Sheehan DM. “Autolo-
gous down-regulation of hormone receptors has been shown
for several steroid hormones. We have previously shown
estradiol (E2) regulates estrogen receptor (ER) in ovariecto-
mized (OVX) rats. These studies have been extended to
investigate the interaction between progesterone (P) and E2
in the regulation of ER and uterine weight.” “These data

demonstrate that P increases uterine weight but does not
alter ER concentration in rats with low E2 levels (OVX or
low E2 concentration implants) but decreases uterine weight
and down-regulates ER at higher E2 levels, regardless of
whether ER is up-regulated or down-regulated by E2.”

Biol Reprod 1993 Jul;49(1):24-32 Progesterone
regulation of endometrial estrogen receptor and cell prolif-
eration during the late proliferative and secretory phase in
artificial menstrual cycles in the rhesus monkey. Okulicz
Wc, Balsamo M, Tast J. “Progesterone (P) down-
regulation of uterine estradiol (E) receptor (ER) appears
to be a general mechanism by which P modulates E
action in the uterus.”

J Cancer Res Clin Oncol 1990:116(5):492-8. Down-
regulation of androgen receptor by progestins and interfer-
ence with estrogenic or androgenic stimulation of mammary
carcinoma cell growth. Hackenberg R, Hofmann J, Wolff G,
Holze] F, Schulz KD. “The regulatory influence of
medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on estrogen and andro-
gen receptors of the human breast cancer cell lines MCF-7
and EFM-19 was explored in conjunction with the growth-
promoting properties of these steroids. In the absence of
steroidal stimulation, up to 1 microM MPA had no effect on
the proliferation of the MCF-7 cell strain used and of
EFM-19 cells. Under stimulation with 10 nM 17 beta-
estradiol or | microM dihydrotestosterone, dose-dependent
inhibition of the cell proliferation rates by 0.1-! microM
MPA was observed.” “The results indicate down-regulation
of estrogen and androgen receptors by progestins in the
absence of stimulatory effects on the proliferation of
mammary carcinoma cells.”

Endocrinology 1989 Jul;125(1):392-9 Down-regulation
of estrogen receptors by androgens in the ZR-75-1 human
breast cancer cell line. Poulin R, Simard J, Labrie C, Petit-
clerc L, Dumont M, Lagace L, Labrie F. “Much clinical
evidence indicates that androgens have beneficial effects in
the treatment of breast cancer in women.” “Similar inhibi-
tory effects are observed on the levels of ER messenger
RNA (mRNA) measured by ribonuclease protection assay.”

Gen Comp Endocrinol 1988 Dec;72(3):443-52.
Progesterone down-regulation of nuclear estrogen
receptor: a fundamental mechanism in birds and
mammals, Selcer KW, Leavitt WW.. “Progesterone is
known to selectively down-regulate nuclear estrogen recep-
tor (Re) in the mammalian uterus, and this process is
functionally related to embryo retention.” “We investigated
the regulation of Re by progesterone in a mammalian model
(proestrous hamster uterus) and an avian model
(DES-primed chick oviduct), under the same assay condi-
tions, in an effort to compare progesterone action in vivipa-
Tous and oviparous species.” “Progesterone treatment
reduced nuclear Re levels in both the hamster uterus and
chick oviduct to about 50% of control levels.” “These data
indicate that progesterone rapidly and selectively down-
regulates the nuclear form of Re in the chick oviduct as in
the hamster uterus. Thus, the regulation of Re by progester-
one appears to be similar in the mammalian uterus and the

chick oviduct, despite the basic differences in reproductive
strategy between birds and mammals.”

Adv Exp Med Biol 1987;230:49-78 Progesterone-
modulation of estrogen action: rapid down regulation of
nuclear acceptor sites for the estrogen receptor. Leavitt
WW, Cobb AD, Takeda A. “Our previous studies demon-
strated that progesterone down regulates the occupied form
of nuclear estrogen receptor (Re).” “. .. we discovered that
progestins stimulate the tumover of nuclear Re within 3 h of
treatment, and Re synthesis is suppressed subsequently.
Thus, the primary site of progestin action in down-regulating
Re is the stimulation of nuclear Re turnover followed by the
inhibition of Re replenishment. A major breakthrough in our
understanding of how progestin controls Re turnover was
made by studying nuclear acceptor sites for Re that were
found to decrease markedly within 2 h of progestin
treatment. These and other results indicate that progestin
induces a factor called the Re regulatory factor (ReRF)
which acts to block nuclear Re acceptor sites, and this in
turn decreases nuclear Re retention on chromatin acceptor
sites, leading to an enhanced turnover (or processing) of
nuclear Re.”

J Steroid Biochem 1986 Aug;25(2):219-24. Temporal
effects of progesterone domination on estrogen and
oxytocin receptors in hamster uterus. Takeda A, Leavitt
WW. “The purpose of this study was to determine whether
progesterone (P)}-induced down regulation of estrogen recep-
tors (Re) and oxytocin receptors (ROT) changes with the
time of P exposure.” “These results demonstrate that P can
chronically down regulate nuclear Re and ROT. However,
the contro] of cytosol Re varies with the time of P exposure,
and cytosol Re levels become refractory to P domination by
16 days. The present observations indicate that the escape of
cytosol Re from P control may be associated with the prolif-
eration of one of more uterine cell populations such as
glandular and luminal epithelial cells.”

Endocrinology 1985 Mar;116(3):1079-84. Hormonal
regulation of myometrial estrogen, progesterone, and
oxytocin receptors in the pregnant and pseudopregnant
hamster. Leavitt WW. “Comparison of Re and Rp levels
with serum estradiol and progesterone titers revealed that
receptor concentration was low when progesterone was
elevated during pregnancy and pseudopregnancy. However,
Re and Rp levels increased when progesterone levels
dropped at the end of each condition. In comparing serum
estradiol relative to progesterone at the end of pregnancy
and pseudopregnancy, it was discovered that Re and Rp
recovery occurred not only when the estradiol to progester-
one ratio increased (pseudopregnancy) but also when the
ratio did not change (pregnancy). This suggested that
serum progesterone was the primary determinant of
receptor down-regulation, and this was confirmed by
comparing the receptor recovery response to estrogen and
progesterone withdrawal in the decidualized hamster uterus.
Total Re levels increased to the same extent after progester-
one withdrawal whether or net serum estradiol was
Maintained. When serum estrogen was maintained at a
steady state, nuclear Re (nRe) increased within 4 h of

progesterone withdrawal, and estrogen-dependent protein
responses (Rp and oxytocin receptor} were obtained within
8 h. Thus, progesterone-induced down-regulation of nRe
and estrogen-dependent proteins is rapidly reversed upon
removal of hormone. The recovery response of Re, Rp, and
oxytocin receptor to progesterone withdrawal can be
blocked by cycloheximide treatment at 4 h, suggesting that
receptor recovery involves protein synthesis. These
results are consistent with the hypothesis that progester-
one down-regulates the Re system by a selective action
on nRe retention.

Proc Nat! Acad Sci U S A 1999 Mar 2:96(5): 1858-62
Proteasome-dependent degradation of the human estrogen
receptor. Nawaz Z, Lonard DM, Dennis AP, Smith CL,
O'Malley BW Department of Cell Biology, Baylor College
of Medicine. “In eukaryotic cells, the ubiquitin-
proteasome pathway is the major mechanism for the
targeted degradation of proteins with short half-lives.
The covalent attachment of ubiquitin to lysine residues
of targeted proteins is a signal for the recognition and
rapid degradation by the proteasome, a large multi-
subunit protease.”. “The UBA and UBCs, which promote
ER degradation in vitro, have no significant effect on human
progesterone receptor and human thyroid hormone receptor
beta proteins.”

RJ Kraay and LJBlack 1970. The effect of estrogen
priming on the uptake of radioactive estradiol, Proc Soc
Ex0 Biol Med 113, 376-379.

G. Trams, B. Engel, F. Lehmann, and H. Maass, 197]
Specific binding of oestradiol in human uterine tissue, Acta
Endocrin (Kbh.) Supp] 155, 138.

Endocrine 1997 Apr;6(2):125-131. Estrogen replace-
ment in ovariectomized rats results in physiologically
significant levels of circulating progesterone, and
co-administration of progesterone markedly reduces the
circulating estrogen. Liu JW, Dawson DD, Peters CE,
Baker MA, Walker AM Division of Biomedical Sciences,
University of California, Riverside.. Estrogen and proges-
terone replacement in ovariectomized rats in an often-used
experimental system for determination of the specific effects
of these hormones. In this study, two different delivery
systems and two different dosage levels of estrogen, proges-
terone or a combination of the two have been used. Estrogen
and progesterone in the circulation have been measured in
response to each treatment. It is reported that estrogen
treatment (237.2 +/- 49.2 pg/mL) results in physiologi-
cally significant levels of circulating progesterone (11.1
+/- 1.3 ng/mL). Also, co-administration of progesterone
(23.7 +/- 2.0 ng/mL) with estrogen decreases the level of
estrogen over that seen with estrogen alone (96.7 +/- 19.2
pg/mL with progesterone vs 237.2 +/- 49.2 pg/mL without
progesterone). Thus, contrary to expectations, estrogen
replacement therapy is not specific to estrogen and some
of the antagonistic effects of progesterone are the result of a
decrease in circulating estrogen, and not a specific effect on
a target tissue. Whereas the mechanism of these effects has
not been determined, obvious artifactitous phenomena have
been excluded as being their cause. These results could have

a major impact on the interpretation of past and future

experiments of this kind.

J Hepatol 1994 Dec;21(6):1127-34 The adverse influ-
ence of pregnancy upon sulphation: a clue to the patho-
genesis of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy? Davies
MH, Ngong JM, Yucesoy M, Acharya SK, Mills CO,
Weaver JB, Waring RH, Elias E.. “Sulphation of oestrogens
and monohydroxy bile acids is important in attenuating their
cholestatic potential. Thus, impairment of sulphation could
lead to retention of cholestatic compounds and precipitate
intrahepatic cholestasis in susceptible individuals.” “During
in vivo studies utilising paracetamol as a metabolic probe,
the proportion of paracetamol sulphate and sulphate: glucu-
ronide ratio were decreased in those with elevated oestro-
gens, whether the rise in oestrogens was endogenous, in
pregnancy (paracetamol sulphate p < 0.05; paracetamol
sulphate:glucuronide ratio p < 0.01), or exogenous, with the
contraceptive pill (paracetamol sulphate p = 0.2; paraceta-
mol sulphate:glucuronide ratio p < 0.001).” “An imbalance
of sulphation with glucuronidation provoked by high circu-
lating oestrogen levels may be contributory in the patho-
genesis of cholestasis of pregnancy.”

Clin Exp Allergy 1995 May;25(5):461-6. Influence of
the menstrual cycle on skin-prick test reactions to hista-
mine, morphine and allergen. Kalogeromitros D, Katsarou
A, Armenaka M, Rigopoulos D, Zapanti M, Stratigos |
Department of Dermatology, University of Athens, A.
Sygros Hospital, Greece. “Results indicate a significant
increase in weal-and-flare size to histamine, morphine,
and parietaria on days 12-16 of the cycle, corresponding
to ovulation and peak oestrogen levels. This was observed
in both atopic and non-atopic women. Differences in skin
reactivity to histamine and morphine between the groups
were not significant. Therefore, in women, the phase of the
menstrual cycle is another factor that may influence skin-test
results.”

J Autoimmun 1989 Aug;2(4):543-52. Estrogen induces
the development of autoantibodies and promotes salivary
gland lymphoid infiltrates in normal mice. Ahmed SA.
Aufdemorte TB, Chen JR, Montoya AI, Olive D, Talal N.

Neuroscience 1993 Dec:57(3):861-71. Synergistic
action of estradiol and myelin basic protein on mast cell
secretion and brain myelin changes resembling early
stages of demyelination. Theoharides TC, Dimitriadou V,
Letourneau R, Rozniecki JJ, Vliagoftis H, Boucher W
Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeu-
tics, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA
02111. “Mast cells are known for their participation in
immediate and, more recently, delayed hypersensitivity
reactions. They have been found in the meninges and
certain brain areas where they are strictly perivascular,
in close apposition to neurons, and they are activated by
direct nerve stimulation or by neuropeptides. Intracra-
nial mast ceils contain many vasoactive substances which
can increase the permeability of the blood-brain barrier,
proteolytic enzymes which can degrade myelin in vitro,
as well as chemotactic molecules which can attract inflam-
matory molecules in vivo. Connective tissue mast cells, with

which intracranial mast cells share many characteristics,
contain cytokines which can cause inflammation directly,
Multiple sclerosis is a human demyelinating disease of
unknown etiology, with a high prevalence in women
which results in penetration of blood-borne immune cells
within the brain parenchyma and subsequent destruc-
tion of myelin. Here, we report that 17 beta-estradiol
and myelin basic protein, a major suspected immunogen
in multiple sclerosis, had a synergistic action on inducing
mast cell secretion.”

Am J Obstet Gynecol 1987 Aug;157(2):312-317.
Age-related changes in the female hormonal environ-
ment during reproductive life. Musey VC, Collins DC,
Musey PI, Martino-Saltzman D, Preedy JR. “We studied
the effects of age, independent of pregnancy, by comparing
serum hormone levels in two groups of nulliparous,
premenopausal women aged 18 to 23 and 29 to 40 years.
We found that increased age during reproductive life is
accompanied by a significant rise in both basal and
Stimulated serum follicle-stimulating hormone levels.
This was accompanied by an increase in the serum level
of estradiol-17 beta and the urine levels of estradiol-17
beta and 17 beta-estradioj-17-glucosiduronate. The serum
level of estrone sulfate decreased with age. Serum and urine
levels of other estrogens were unchanged.”

T. Nencioni and F. Polvani, Rationale for the use of
calcitonin in the prevention of post-menopausal osteopo-
rosis,"" in Calcitonin, A. Pecile, editor, Elsevier Science
Publ., 1985.

C. C. Johnston, et al., "Age-related bone loss," pages
91-100 in U. S. Barrel, editor, Osteoporosis II, Grune and
Stratton, N. Y., 1979. Johnston (1979) found that proges-
terone (but not estrone, estradiol, testosterone, or
androstenedione) was significantly lower in those losing
bone mass most rapidly.

