Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission.

Copyright July 2003

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764 Eugene OR 97405

May 2005

Foily is the cloke of knavery

Leakiness, aging, and cancer

A thin layer of fibrin lining blood vessels provides
a filtering barrier that helps to strengthen the wall and
prevent other proteins from leaking out of the vesseis,
and it participates in repair processes when the blood
vessel is broken.

Cellular energy metabolism is the basis for
maintaining the barrier functions. Energy depletion
causes the endothelial cells lining blood vessels to
become excessively permeable.

When the organism's resistance is low, proteins
and fats that normally remain inside the bloodstream
can escape into the extracellular matrix and enter cells,
contributing to their stress and disorganization, and
other materials can escape from cells and enter the
bloodstream.

One of the simplest demonstrations of fibrin
leakage is to shine a beam of light into the eye; the
presence of fibrin and other inappropriate molecules
diffuses the light, causing a "flare'’ in the aqueous
compartment (Sawa, 1990). Albumin, a small protein
from the blood, is often seen in the urine during stress.
The effects of that sort of leakage vary with each
organ.

Fibrin is an essential structural and functional
part of the organism, but when it escapes from the
bloodstream it participates in the degenerative
processes of inflammation, fibrosis, and tumor forma-
tion. (Its fragments stimulate secretion of inflammatory
mediators: Hamaguchi et al., 1991.)

In the hormonal environment dominated by estro-
gen, mild stresses such as exertion, or even restless
sleep, allow toxins (and sometimes bacteria) from the
intestine to enter the bloodstream, triggering a complex
chain of events that create a systemic inflammatory
state. Although these processes have been observed in
many simple experiments, their implications are almost
always neglected or denied or explained away.

Incorporation of certain polyunsaturated fats into
the tissues increases the leakiness of blood vessels, and
amplifies the reactions to stresses and inflammatory
stimuli.

Antioxidants, thyroid hormone, progesterone, and
antiinflammatory agents, including glycine or gelatin,
niacin, and saturated fats, can prevent, and in many
cases reverse, these degenerative inflammatory

processes.

Even a single celled organism has to keep its
parts separate, and highly differentiated multi-
celled organisms have many special systems that
serve to keep their parts separate, so the different
tissues and organs can maintain their distinct
functions.

The movement of substances from blood to
cell, and from cell to cell, is normally very tightly
controlled, and when the systems that control
those movements of water and its solutes are
damaged, the tissues’ structures and functions are
altered. The prevention of inappropriate leakiness
can protect against the degenerative processes,
and against aging itself, which is, among other
things, a state of generalized leakiness.

When ceils’ energy is depleted, water and
various dissolved molecules are allowed to move
into the cells, out of the cells, and through or
around cells inappropriately. The weakened cells
can even permit whole bacteria and similar parti-
cles to pass into and out of the blood stream more
easily.

One of the earliest investigators of the effects
of stress and fatigue on nerves and other cells was
A.P. Nasonov, in the first half of the 20th century.
A.S. Troshin (1956) has reviewed his work in
detail. He showed that in cells as different as
algae and nerve cells, fatigue caused them to take
up dyes, and that the dyes were extruded, if the
cells were able to recover their energy. When
nerve cells are excited for a fraction of a second,
they take up sodium and calcium, but quickly
eliminate them. Prolonged excitation, leading to
fatigue, can gradually shift the balance, allowing
more substances to enter, and to stay longer.

When nerves or other cells are quickly killed
with heavy metals such as osmium, the metals are
visible in a layer at the surface, which is
sometimes taken as evidence of a "cytoplasmic
membrane," but if the cells have suffered oxygen
deprivation or have been injured by X-rays, the

metal will be visible as a grey color evenly distrib-
uted through the cell. The deposition of the metal
occurs when it reacts with electrons. In the
relatively vital cell, the heavy metal stops at the
surface, and is mostly reduced there, but the
devitalized cell presents no structural or chemical
barrier to the entry of the metal, and the reactive
electrons appear to be evenly distributed through
the cell. Oxygen deprivation, X-irradiation, and
other stresses cause the cell to be unable to use
electrons to produce energy, and instead the
electrons are available to react destructively with
whatever may be available. While Nasonov
showed that dyes and even particles enter
energetically depleted cells. newer techniques are
able to show that the leaky cells are structurally
disrupted by the excessive reduction of their
proteins, by excited electrons and free radicals.

In the 1970s, experimenters found that
muscles from vitamin E deficient animals released
their enzymes when washed in a saline solution,
more easily than did the muscles from vitamin E
replete animals. Other experiments around the
same time showed that reducing the ATP of
muscles caused a similar loss of their ability to
retain their proteins.

Over the years, many experiments have estab-
lished. both in vitro and in vivo. that fatigue,
stress. aging, and inflammation cause cells to lose
their normal constituents, but also to allow foreign
materials to enter more easily.

When ] was working on my thesis, around
1970, investigating the effects of aging on the
metabolism of the uterus, ] found that the changes
occuring during aging were (in all the ways I
tested) the same as those produced by
X-irradiation, excess estrogen, oxygen
deprivation, excess polyunsaturated fats, and
vitamin E deficiency.

Although everyone working in the lab was
familiar with the appearance of the uterus from
old hamsters (they are typically large, stiff. and
somewhat bluish or purplish), everyone was
surprised when | suggested that the aged uteri
seemed to function as if they were under the influ-
ence of a considerable amount of estrogen. Every-
one was familiar with the medical textbook
doctrine that "menopause is caused by estrogen

deficiency." In humans, gynecologists know about
"Chadwick's sign." the fact that the uterine cervix
turns blue or purple during pregnancy, and every-
one knows that blood is blue when it's deprived of
oxygen, so it's surprising that estrogen's effect on
tissue oxygenation isn't widely recognized.

When estrogen is given to an animal, it almost
instantly causes capillaries to become leaky,
allowing water to move out of the blood stream,
and at the same time, estrogen causes cells to take
up water. Both of these processes are the same as
the early effects of oxygen deprivation. In the
normal reproductive cycle, the surge of estrogen
lasts only a few hours, and normal permeability is
quickly restored by increasing progesterone.
During those intermittent short exposures fo estro-
gen, there isn't usually a massive leakage of serum
proteins into the tissues. During the time of estro-
genic influence, all kinds of cells are influenced,
with the excitatory equilibrium of nerve cells,
glandular cells, and immune system cells being
shifted, Jowering the threshold of excitation, or
prolonging the excited state.

Anything that causes inflammation causes a
similar loss of water from the blood, as it is taken
up by swelling cells. If inflammation is general-
ized, it causes circulatory shock. because the
volume of the blood has become insufficient to
serve the organism's needs. One of Hans Selye's
earliest observations of the effect of an overdose
of estrogen was that it causes shock.

Although water loss causes the blood to
become more viscous under the influence of estro-
gen, the plasma becomes hypotonic, meaning that
it contains fewer osmotically active solutes than
normal; some of the sodium that helps to maintain
the blood’s osmotic balance is lost through the
kidneys, and some is taken up by the red blood
cells and other cells. The osmotic imbalance of
the blood causes tissue cells to take up more
water, contributing to their increased excitability.
In many cases, the vascular Jeakage of inflamma-
tion and shock can be corrected by using osmoti-
cally active substances, such as starch solutions,
gelatin, or concentrated sodium chloride.

The tissue water retention caused by estrogen,
hypoxia, and stress is analogous to the swelling of
gels and colloids, that is, it's governed by the state

of the electrons and counter-ions in the system.
Excitation, fatigue, or injury can cause a shift of
pH toward alkalinity, causing water uptake and
swelling.

The blue color of the pregnant cervix, or of the
uterus in an animal given an overdose of estrogen.
indicates that the tissue isn't sufficiently oxygen-
ated to maintain its normal red color, even though
the flow of blood is increased. Some experiment-
ers have noticed that newborn animals sometimes
have the postural reflex (lordosis) that indicates an
estrogenic state, and that suffocation can produce
the same reflex. Irradiating animals with x-rays
will also produce the whole range of estrogenic
effects.

One of the features of the aged uterus that |
studied was the age pigment, lipofuscin, a brown
waxy material that accumulates in old or stressed
tissues. Prolonged dosage with estrogen acceler-
ates the formation of this pigment, which is
largely derived from oxidized polyunsaturated
fatty acids. Increased amounts of those fats in the
diet, or a deficiency of vitamin E, or exposure to
ionizing radiation, or oxygen deprivation. can also
accelerate the formation of the age pigment. The
presence of the pigment intensifies the effect of
estrogen, since the pigment wastes oxygen by
functioning as an oxidase enzyme.

Other tests that I did on aged, or estrogenized,
uterine tissue indicated that several oxidative
systems were activated; for example, the tissues
showed an extremely high activity of the enzyme
peroxidase, and a very intense reduction of a
chemical dye  (tetrazolium/formazan) that
indicates the presence of reductive and oxidative
activity, of the sorts caused by radiation and
oxygen deprivation. These reductive and oxidative
processes include the production of some free
radicals that are capable of reacting randomly with
polyunsaturated fatty acids.

The interactions between estrogen and the
polyunsaturated fats are now coming to be more
widely recognized as important factors in the
inflammatory/hyperpermeable conditions _ that
contribute to the development of heart and blood
vessel disease, hypertension, cancer, autormmune
diseases, dementia, and other less common degen-
erative conditions.

Go

Estrogen increases lipid peroxidation, and
maintains a chronically high circulating level of
free fatty acids, mainly PUFA, activates the
phospholipases that release arachidonic acid from
cells leading to formation of prostaglandins and
isoprostanes, and increases the enzymes that form
the inflammation-promoting platelet activating
factor (PAF) while suppressing the enzymes that
destroy it, and increases a broad range of other
inflammatory mediators, interleukins, and
NF-kappa B.

The leakage of enzymes out of cells and into
the blood stream is recognized medically as
evidence of damage to the organ that is losing
them. Different combinations of enzymes are
commonly considered to be evidence of a heart
attack, or skeletal muscle damage, or liver
disease, pancreatitis, prostate cancer, etc. But
often the reason for the leakage isn't understood.
Hypothyroidism, for example, causes leakage of
enzymes, possibly mainly from the liver, but also
from other organs. Excess estrogen, intense
exercise, starvation, anything that increases lipid
peroxidation and free radical production, such as
drinking alcohol when the tissues contain polyun-
saturated fats, can cause organs such as heart and
liver to leak their components.

The loss of enzymes increases the energy
needed to stay alive, but it doesn't necessarily
change the basic functions of the cell. (Though
when mitochondrial enzymes leak out into the
cytoplasm, the cell's energy metabolism is
impaired, at least temporarily.) But the entry of
catalytic materials from other tissues changes the
organization of a cell, giving it conflicting instruc-
tions. In many situations, as L.V. Polezhaev and
V. Filatov demonstrated, the substances released
during stress and degeneration serve to stimulate
healing and regeneration. But when the resources
aren't available for full repair or regeneration, only
a scar, or atrophic fibrosis, or a tumor will be
formed.

In severe stress, intracellular fibrin deposits
have been found in the heart (Buja, et al., 1976)
and other organs, including the prostate gland.
Deficiency of testosterone causes vascular leakage
into the prostate. Fibrin promotes tumor growth,
partly by serving as a matrix, partly by releasing

stimulatory peptides. Estrogen and_ prolactin
contribute to the edema of the prostate resulting
from the absence of testosterone.

Kidney disease, diabetes, pregnancy toxemia
and retinal degeneration are probably the best
known problems involving vascular leakage, but
increasingly, cancer and heart disease are being
recognized as consequences of prolonged perme-
ability defects. Congestive heart failure and
pulmonary hypertension commonly cause leakage
of fluid into the lungs, and shock of any sort
causes the jung to get "wet," a waterlogged condi-
tion called "shock lung." Simply hyperventilating
for a couple of minutes will increase leakage from
the blood into the lungs; hyperventilation
decreases carbon dioxide, and increases serotonin
and histamine. Hyperoxta itself contributes to ling
injury, and exacerbates emphysema, though It 1s
common to see patients breathing a high concen-
tration of oxygen. Emphysema (which can be
caused by hypothyroidism or hyper-estrogenism,
and often can be cured by thyroid or progesterone)
and many other respiratory problems are associ-
ated with capillary leakage. Cells of the jung and
intestine are able to synthesize their own fibrin,
apparently because of their special problems in
preventing leakage. Prolonged systemic inflamma-
tion can lead to lung fibrosis, and fibrosis
increases the likelihood of lung cancer.

The inflammatory state that causes exagger-
ated cellular permeability is very closely related to
"hyperventilation," the loss of too much carbon
dioxide. The release of serotonin during hyperven-
tilation isn't the only cause of vascular leakage;
the carbon dioxide itself is an essential factor in
regulating the state of cellular electrons and in
maintaining cellular integrity. Hyperventilation,
like the shift from oxidative to glycolytic energy
production that typifies estrogenized or stressed
cells or cancer, raises intracellular pH. In the case
of mast cells, increasing alkalinity causes them to
release histamine (Alfonso, et al., 2005), but
similar "alkaline-induced exocytosis" seems to
occur In all stressed tissues.

Since histamine is formed by decarboxylation
of histidine, the presence of carbon dioxide in a
cell would tend to restrain the reaction, by mass
action. All types of cell, at least in animals, form

histamine as they are being killed. Sensory nerves
in the carotid body respond to hypoxia in the
artery supplying the brain by sending signals that
accelerate breathing; recent information suggests
that it is the formation of histamine in the carotid
body that responds to oxygen deprivation
(Koerner, et al., 2003). When the formation of
histamine is inhibited by blocking histidine decar-
boxylase, it can slow the rate of breathing (lzumi-
zaki, et al., 2000).

The blood platelets that become incontinent
and leak serotonin in the absence of carbon
dioxide are undergoing the same structural
stresses experienced by endothelial cells, smooth
muscle cells, mast cells and all other cells when
carbon dioxide is depleted. Although it has been
about 70 years since Yandel! Henderson made it
clear that supplemental oxygen should be
combined with carbon dioxide, mechanical venti-
lation in hospitals is still causing lung injury
resulting from hyperventilation, 1.e., the absence
of carbon dioxide.

A similar misunderstanding of biology was
involved in the use of dialysis to treat kidney
disease. Until recently, commercial dialysis fluids
contained acetate and/or racemic lactate instead of
bicarbonate, because of the difficulty of preparing
bicarbonate solutions, and the result was that very
prolonged dialysis would damage the bratn and
other organs. (Veech and Gitomer, 1988, Veech
and Fowler, 1987.) Dialysis has been seen to
increase lung permeability (Bell, et al., 1988).

Amyloidosis produced by chronic dialysis
affects all organs, but its effects are best known in
the brain, heart, kidneys, and lungs. Serum
amyloid-A is one of the acute phase proteins, like
C-reactive protein (CRP), that are produced by
inflammation. Estrogen, radiation and other
stresses increase those pro-inflammatory acute
phase proteins, and decrease protective albumin,
which is called a "negative acute phase protein,"
since it decreases when the other acute phase
proteins increase. The liver is the major source of
the acute phase proteins, and it is constantly
burdened by toxins absorbed from the bowel;
disinfection of the bowel is known to accelerate
recovery from Stress.

Seen from the perspective of the stress-leakage
syndrome, any Serious injury or sickness damages
all organs.

The exhaled breath is being used to diagnose
inflammatory lung disease, since so many of the
mediators of inflammation are volatile, but
systemic diseases such as cancer and arthritis, and
relatively minor stress can be detected by changes
in the chemicals found in the breath. Polyunsatu-
rated fats and their breakdown  products--
aldehydes, prostaglandins, isoprostanes, hydrocar-
bons, and free radicals--and carbon monoxide,
nitric oxide, nitrite, and hydrogen peroxide are
increased in the breath by most stresses.

Both proline and glycine (which are major
amino acids in gelatin) are very protective for the
liver, increasing albumin, and stopping oxidative
damage.

Saturated fats are protective against free
radical damage and can reverse liver fibrosis.

Thyroid hormone protects against excess
estrogen, and can prevent or reverse fibrosis of the
heart (Yao, et al., 1992). It's the main regulator of
energy production and tissue integrity.

Antiestrogens are widely effective against
vascular leakage. Thyroid, progesterone, and
testosterone are among the most effective natural
antiestrogens, and they are curative in many
conditions that involve vascular leakage. Proges-
terone and pregnenolone have been called the
antifibromatic steroids, and progesterone has been
used to treat many inflammatory and_ fibrotic
diseases, including cancer.

The antiserotonin drugs are being increasingly
used to treat fibrotic diseases, and other problems
related to vascular leakage. The antiserotonin
drugs lower prolactin secretion, and prolactin is
closely associated with estrogen in causing vascu-
lar leakage. Vitamin D, magnesium, and calcium
(Graham, et al., 1990; Chen and Ruan, 1995;
Chen et al., 1994) can reduce capillary permeabil-
ity, possibly by reducing parathyroid hormone and
mast cell products including serotonin.

Antunflammatory and anticoagulant things,
especially aspirin and vitamin E, protect against
the accelerated turnover of fibrinogen/fibrin
caused by estrogen and the various inflammatory
states.

Since polyunsaturated fatty acids become
integrated into all types of cell, and cause so many
types of damage when they are released, every-
thing which inhibits their release is protective.
Niacinamide, Benadryl. aspirin (Yu, et al., 2003),
and procaine help to reduce the release of free
fatty acids. Although many studies have demon-
strated antiaging, antiinflammatory, and antican-
cer effects of procaine, its therapeutic use has
never been widely accepted, because it didn't fit
into traditional ideas of "rational drug therapy." It
normalized too many systems to seem "rational."
Since people and animals clearly felt better when
they were given procaine, an attempt was made to
ascribe its action to its slight stimulating action as
an inhibitor of MAO, but its main actions proba-
bly include antihistamine and anticholinergic
effects and inhibition of phospholipases and other
lipolytic enzymes (e.g., Chen, et la, 2002;
D'Costa and Angel, 1975). Belladonna and
atropine have some of those same antiinflamma-
tory effects.

Although fish oil interferes with prostaglandin
synthesis, 1t can contribute to the formation of
PAF (Triggiani, et al., 1990), and other mediators
of inflammation, energy suppression, and free
radicals, including nitric oxide (Nishimura, et al.,
2000; Hirafuji, et al., 2002). Since the fish oils are
commonly studied by comparing the supple-
mented animals with "control" animals receiving
soy oil, corn oil, or safflower oil, which are
strongly pro-inflammatory and broadly toxic, it
isn't surprising that their effects usually seem
favorable. But when they are compared with
saturated fats (as I mentioned in the "Fats and
degeneration” newsletter) or with a fat free diet,
their effects are seen to be pro-inflammatory and
toxic.

Adrenaline, like estrogen, increases lipolysis
and free fatty acids in the bloodstream, so keeping
adrenaline low most of the time (especially at
night) helps to minimize inflammation and vascu-
lar leakiness. Hypothyroidism, and the associated
hypoglycemia, contribute to the formation of
adrenaline, and the thyroid stimulating hormone
itself, even if thyroxine and T3 seem normal, can
contribute to production of the major

inflammatory mediators. Antihistamines help to
prevent excessive adrenaline action.

Although caffeine, if it's combined with
hypoglycemia and stress, will increase lipolysis
and free fatty acids, several of the
methylxanthines, including caffeine, theophylline,
and pentoxifylline, can protect against capillary
leakage, probably by a variety of antiinflammatory
actions, including inhibition of nitric oxide
synthesis (Bereta, et al., 1994).

In general, the effects are better when several

of the protective agents are used together, since
they protect against leakage by many different

mechanisms.

REFERENCES

Biochem Pharmacol. 2005 Ian 15;69(2):319-27. Epub 2004
Dec 10. Calcium-pH crosstalks in rat mast cells: modulation by
transduction signals show non-essential role for calcium in
alkaline-induced exocytosis. Alfonso A. Vieytes MR. Botana LM.

Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Aug:130(8):1809-16. Calcium-pH
crosstalks in rat mast cells: cytosolic alkalinization, but not
intracellular calcium release, is a sufficient signal for
degranutation. Alfonso A, Cabado AG, Vieytes MR. Botana LM.

Cancer Biol Ther. 2003 Mar-Apr:2(7):173-8.

Dietary glycine inhibits angiogenesis during wound healing and
tumor growth. Amin K. Li J. Chao WR. Dewhirst MW. Haroon
ZA.

J Lipid Mediat Cell Signal. 1994 Mar:9(2):145-53. Essential
fatty acid-deficient diet modifies PAF levels in stomach and
duodenum of endotoxin-treated rats. Autore G. Cicala C. Cirino
G. Maiello FM, Mascolo N, Capasso F.

J Biol Chem. 2004 Aug 27:279(35):36405-11. Epub 2004 Jun
21. Phospholipase A2 inhibitors or platelet-activating factor
antagonists prevent prion replication. Bate C. Reid S. Williams
A.

Neuroreport. 2004 Mar 1:15(3):509-13. The role of platelet
activating factor in prion and amyloid-beta neurotoxicity. Bate
C. Salmona M. Williams A.

Biull Eksp Biol Med. 1976 Oct:82(10):1181-3. [Role of the
biological activity of serotonin in the production of the "shock
lung" syndrome|[Article in Russian]Bazarevich Gla. Deviataev
AM. Likhtenshtein AO, Natsvlishvili BP. Sadeko MKh. "The
influence of the serotin biological activity on forming the "shock"
lung syndrome was revealed in experiments on rats. Tachyhyperp-
nea with predominance of functional emphysema and a small
number of atelectic tissue areas were observed in the animals with
traumatic "shock" during the serotonin hypersecretion.”

Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1988:3(4}:426-31. Altered lung
vascular permeability during intermittent haemodialysis. Bell
D. Nicoll J. Jackson M, Millar A, Winney RJ. Mutr AL. Depart-
ment of Medicine, Royal Infirmary. Edinburgh. Scotland. UK.

Altern Lab Anim. 200! Jan-Feb:29(1):35-53. Effects of
L-proline on phase [ and phase I] xenobiotic biotransformation
capacities of rat and human hepatocytes in long-term collagen
gel cultures. Beken S, De Smet K. Depreter M. Roels F,
Vercruysse A, Rogiers V. Department of Toxicology (FAFY),
Vrije Universiteit Brussel. Laarbeeklaan 103, 1090 Brussels.

Belgium, L-Proline supplementation of the medium for colla-
gen gel cultures of hepatocytes has been shown to improve
albumin secretion.

Exp Cell Res. 1994 Jun;212(2):230-42. Methylxanthines
and calcium-mobilizing agents inhibit the expression of
cytokine-inducible nitric oxide synthase and vascular cell
adhesion molecule-] in murine microvascular endothelial cells.
Bereta M, Bereta J, Georgoff 1, Coffman FD. Cohen S$, Cohen MC.
"Our data indicate that low density lipoproteins inhibited
cytokine-induced iNOS activity by affecting the steady-state
levels of iNOS mRNA. Methylxanthines (caffeine and theophyl-
line) as well as several calcium-mobilizing agents inhibited the
expression/activity of both INOS and VCAM-I in MME. The
effectiveness of these agents was dependent upon the degree of
disruption in cell calcium homeostasis during cytokine treat-
ment." “In addition, our results suggest that NO produced by
iNOS acts as a metabolic switch during inflammation by inhibiting
oxidative phosphorylation and forcing vascular endothelial cells
to temporarily utilize anaerobic energy metabolism."

Chest. 1986 Jun,89(6):859-63. Role of free radicals in lung
injury. Brigham KL. "Several forms of lung injury appear to result
from generation of toxic metabolites of oxygen in quantities which
exceed the antioxidant capacity of lung cells.”

Hum Pathol. 1976 Jan;7(1):17-45. Cardiac pathologic
findings in patients treated with bone marrow transplantation.
Buja LM. Ferrans VJ, Graw RG Jr.

Histochemistry. 1978 Jul 12:56(3-4):329-40. Oxygen and the
production of formazan from neotetrazolium chloride. Butcher
RG.

Anesth Analg. 2002 Jul:95(1):88-97. The inhibitory effect of
local anesthetics on bradykinin-induced phospholipase D
activation in rat pheochromocytoma PC {2 cells. Chen J. Dohi S.
Tan Z. Banno Y. Nozawa Y.

Pharmacol Toxicol. 1995 Jun:76(6):365-7. J
alpha,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 decreases scalding- and
platelet-activating factor-induced high vascular permeability
and fissue oedema. Chen SF. Ruan YE.

Zhongguo Yao Li Xue Bao. 1994 Jul:15(4):299-302. Three
drugs inhibit phospholipase A2-induced high permeability of
endothelial monolayers. Chen SF. Li SH. Ding FY.

Mol Biotechnol. 2002 May:21(1):85-90. Angiogenesis and
the unique nature of tumor matrix. Chiarug V, Ruggiero M.
Magnellt L.

Prostate. 1981;2(4):337-58. Fluid inbibition as a factor in
estrogen-induced increase of prostatic weight in castrated rats.
Corrales JJ, Kadohama N. Chai LS. Hoisaeter PA. Hampton MT,
Murphy GP, Sandberg AA.

Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 1975 Aug;53(4):603-9. Unecou-
pling of lipolysis from cyclic AMP by procaine: a tool for
studying the mechanism of action of antilipolytic agents.
D'Costa M, Angel A. "The initial rate of net glycerol release in
norepinephrine-stimulated adipose tissue fragments was inhib-
ited (40-78%) by procaine-HCI (1-SmM), whereas basal
(unstimulated) lipolysis was unaffected. A dose-related inhibi-
tion of norepinephrine-induced lipolysis by procaine-HCl (0.1-1
mM) also occurred in adipocytes. Procaine-induced antilipoly-
sis was associated with an augmented rather than a reduced
hormone-stimulated increment in intracellular cyclic AMP. The
dissociation of lipolysis from cyclic AMP accumulation has been
termed the uncoupling effect of procaine."

J Anim Sci. 1984 Mav:58(5):1191-7. Effects of ovine
growth hormone and other anterior pituitary hormones on
lipolysis of rat and ovine adipose tissue in vitro. Duquette PF,
Scanes CG, Muir LA.

Methods Mal Med. 2004:98:191-8. In vivo vascular leakage
assay. Elena Ferrero M.

Virchows Arch B Cell Pathol Incl Mol] Pathol.
1980:34(3):213-7. The effeet of local UVB skin irradiation on
the rate of formazan deposition in the epidermis of hairless
mice studied by means of a tetrazolium-reduction method.
Fossa J. Iversen OH. Thune PO.

Lik Sprava. 1998 Oct-Nov:(7):57-9. [The fatty acid composi-
tion of the lipids in the expired air condensate from patients
with complicated and uncomplicated courses of myocardial
infaret] [Article in Russian] Gichka SG.

Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1990 Aug: 19(2):329-39.
Pharmacological alteration of the lung vascular response to
radiation. Graham MM. Evans ML, Dahlen DD, Mahler PA.
Rasey JS.

J Pharm Sci. 1976 Jul;63(7):1048-53. Effect of solvent on
tetrazolium reaction. Graham RE. Biehl ER. Kenner CT,

Br J Pharmacol. 2002 Jun;136(4):613-9. Docosahexaenoic
acid potentiates interleukin-Ibeta induction of nitric oxide
synthase through mechanism involving p44/42 MAPK
activation in rat vascular smooth muscle cells. Hirafuji M.
Machida T. Tsunoda M, Miyamoto A. Minami M.

Crit Care Med. 2003 Feb:31(2):560-5. Endotoxin increases
both protein and fluid microvascular permeability in cat skele-
tal muscle. Holbeck S. Grande PO.

Progr. Colloid Polym. Sci. 86, 92-101 (1991). "Swelling
pressure equilibrium of swollen crosslinked systems tn an exter-
nal field Ji: The determination of molecular parameters of
gelatin / water gels from the swelling pressure - concentration
curves," Holtus. G.. Célfen. H., and Borchard. W.

Arch Pathol. 1971 Jan;91(1):19-28. Fibrin deposition within
cardiac muscle cells in malignant hypertension. An electron
microscopic study. Huttner tL. Rona G. More RH.

J} Neurol Sci. 1982 Mar:53(3):423-31. A study of vascular
permeability in normal skeletal muscle and inflammatory
myopathies using a fluorescein dye technique with percutane-
ous needle biopsy. Isenberg DA. McKeran RO.

Int J Sports Med. 2000 Jul:21(5):369-74. Vitamin E supple-
mentation attenuates leakage of enzymes following 6 successive
days of running training. Itoh H. Ohkuwa T. Yamazaki Y.
Shimoda T. Wakayama A, Tamura S. Yamamoto T. Sato Y.
Miyamura M.

J App! Physiol. 2000 Aug:89(2):770-6, Central histamine
contributed to temperature-induced polypnea in mice. |zumi-
zakt M, Iwase M, Kimura H. Kurtyama T, Homma lI.

Curr Opin Allergy Clin Immunol. 200] Jun:1(3):217-24.
Exhaled markers of inflammation. Kharitonov SA, Barnes PJ.
National Heart and Lung Institute. Imperial College. London. UK.

J Neurochem, 2004 Oct:91(2}:493-500. Evidence for hista-
mine as a transmitter in rat carotid body sensor cells. Koerner
P. Hesslinger C, Schaefermeyer A. Prinz C, Gratzl M.

Brain Res. 1987 Dec 15:436(2):352-6. Rapid extraceliular
pH transients related to synaptic transmission in rat hippocam-
pal slices. Krishtal OA. Osipchuk YV. Shelest TN, Smirnoff SV.

Biochim Biophys Acta. 2003 Jun 17:1641(1):43-53, Menadi-
one causes endothelial barrier failure by a direct effect on
intracellular thiols, independent of reactive oxidant production,
McAmis WC. Schaeffer RC Jr, Baynes JW, Wolf MB.

Eur J Cancer. 1997 Apr:33(4):602-7. Medroxyprogesterone
acetate reduces the in vitro production of cytokines and
serotonin involved in anorexia/cachexia and emesis by periph-
eral blood mononuclear cells of cancer patients. Mantovani G.

Maccio A. Esu S. Lai P, Santona MC, Massa E, Dessi D, Melis
GB, Del Giacco GS.

Shock. 2004 Apr;21(4):336-41. Resuscitation from septic
shock with capillary leakage: hydroxyethyl starch (130 kd), but
not ringer’s solution maintains plasma volume and systemic
oxygenation. Marx G. Pedder S. Smith L, Swaraj S, Grime S,
Stockdale H, Leuwer M.

Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2002 Apy;2(2):227-33. Antico-
agulants in thrombosis and cancer: the missing link. Mousa SA.

Am J Kidney Dis. 1999 Jul;34(1):43-8. Relationship
between serum magnesium and parathyroid hormone levels in
hemodialysis patients. Navarro JF, Mora C. Jimenez A, Torres A,
Macia M, Garcia J.

Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2000 Aug:27(8}:618-24.
Eicosapentaenoic acid stimulates nitric oxide production and
decreases cardiac noradrenaline in diabetic rats, Nishimura M.
Nanbu A, Komori T, Ohtsuka K. Takahashi H, Yoshimura M.

Ann Surg. 2002 Nov:236(5):634-42. Hypertonic saline
resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock diminishes neutrophil
rolling and adherence to endotheitum and reduces in vivo
vascular leakage. Pascual JL. Ferri LE, Seely AJ, Campisi G,
Chaudhury P. Giannias B. Evans DC, Razek T, Michel RP, Chris-
tou NY.

HPB Surg. 1992:6(2):79-90. Pulmonary injury in acute
experimental pancreatitis correlates with elevated levels of free
fatty acids in rats. Rosen HR. Tuchler H.

Am J Physiol. 1995 May:268(5 Pt 2):H1856-61. Capillary
hydraulic conductivity is decreased by nitric oxide synthase
inhibition. Rumbaut RE, McKay MK, Huxley VH.

Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1992 Mar:33(3):626-40. Diurnal
tear cycle: evidence for a nocturnal inflammatory constitutive
tear fluid. Sack RA. Tan KO, Tan A,

Pharmazie. 2004 Jan;59(1):55-60. Effect of glycine on
oxidative stress in rats with alcohol induced liver injury.
Senthilkumar R,. Viswanathan P, Nalini N. Department of
Biochemistry, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu,
India.

Endocrinology. 1999 Apr:140(4):1920-6. Early effects of
castration on the vascular system of the rat ventral prostate
gland. Shabisgh A, Tanji N. D'Agati V, Burchardt M, Rubin M,
Goluboff ET, Heitjan D, Kiss A. Buttyan R. Recent studies have
found that blood flow to the rat ventral prostate gland is drastically
reduced at an early time after castration. These observations
caused us to reevaluate the effects of castration on the various cell
populations of the ventral prostate, especially those in the prostatic
vascular system. Sections of ventral prostate glands obtained at
different times after castration were analyzed using the TUNEL
(terminal deoxynucleotide transferase-mediated dUTP nick END
fabeling) staining method to quantify apoptosis in different cell
types. The results of this analysis showed a significant increase in
TUNEL staining of prostate endothelial and (nonendothelial)
stromal cells as early as 12 h postcastration that continued to 24 h
after castration. In contrast, TUNEL labeling of prostate epithelial
cells was not significantly increased compared with control values
until 72 h after castration. The use of dual immunohistochemical
staining procedures (anti-CD31 for endothelial cells or antismooth
muscle actin for smooth muscle cells combined with TUNEL
labeling) allowed us to confirm that the TUNEL-positive vascular
cells at these early times after castration were endothelial in nature,
whereas smooth muscle cells surrounding the prostate glands or
portions of the afferent vascular endothelium were rarely TUNEL
labeled, Electron microscopic evaluation of ventral prostate tissues
at 48 h after castration provided further morphological evidence
for the occurrence of apoptosis in prostate endothelial cells.

Finally, the Lendrum-Fraser histochemieal procedure used to
identify fibrin leakage in tissues with vascular damage was
applied to sections of the ventral prostate gland. This stain
revealed diffuse fibrin accumulation in periglandular areas
outside the capillaries and blood vessels in prostates from 24-h
castrated rats, but not in prostates of sham-operated rats. Our
results confirm an early effect of castration on the vascular
system of the rat ventral prostate identified by increased
apoptosis of endothelial cells and vascular leakiness. As these
changes temporally precede the loss of epithelial cells. we propose
that they may be causal rather than incidental to regression of the
rat ventral prostate after castration.

Pharmazie. 2004 Jan:59(1):55-60. Effect of glycine on oxida-
tive stress in rats with alcohol induced liver injury. Senthilku-
mar R, Viswanathan P, Nalini N. Department of Biochemistry.
Annamalai University, Annamajainagar. Tamilnadu, India.

Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 1992 Now 15;89(22):10628-32.
Activation of kappa B-specific proteins by estradiol. Shyamala
G, Guiot MC.

Ann N Y Acad Sei. 2001:936:406-25. Tumors and fibrino-
gen. The role of fibrinogen as an extracellular matrix protein.
Simpson-Haidaris PJ, Rybarezyk B.

Circulation. 2003 Ful 22:108(3):325-30. Epub 2003 Jun 30.
Prognostic impact of vascular leakage in acute Kawasaki
disease. Terai M, Honda T, Yasukawa K. Higashi K. Hamada H,
Kohno Y,.

Endocrinology. 1998 Jan:139(1):403-13. Corticotropin-
releasing hormone induces skin mast cell degranulation and
increased vascular permeability, a possible explanation for its
proinflammatory effects. Theoharides TC. Singh LK. Boucher W,
Pang X, Letourneau R, Webster E, Chrousos.

J Immunol, 1990 Oct 1:145(7):2241-8. Evidenee that
increasing the cellular content of eicosapentaenoic acid does not
reduce the biosynthesis of platelet-activating factor. Triggiant
M. Connell TR. Chilton FH. Department of Medicine, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore. MD 21224.
"Our study has examined platelet-activating factor (PAF)
biosynthesis in neutrophils from individuals on a_ fish
oil-enriched diet and in mast cells enriched with eicosapentae-
noiec acid (EPA) in vitro." "Finally, in vitro supplementation of
murine mast cells (PT-18) with arachidonic acid or EPA caused
a marked increase in the amount of PAF produced by the cell
without having any effect on histamine release. Data from these
experiments suggest that EPA is incorporated into a PAF
precursor pool, However. this appears not to inhibit PAF produc-
tion because phospholipase A2 can use cicosapentaenoate- as wel!
as arachidonate-containing phospholipids in the initial step of PAF
biosynthesis.”

Biochem Pharmacol. 1983 Jan 15:32(2):355-60. Induction of
mast cell secretion by parathormone, Tsakalos ND. Theoharides
TC. Kops SK. Askenase PW. "Intradermal injection of PTH
induced immediate increases in vascular permeability suggesting
that PTH could induce mast cell secretion in vivo. Light and
electron microscopic observations confirmed mast cell degranula-
tion by exocytosis. These results demonstrate that elevated levels
of PTH can induce mast cell secretion in vitro and in vivo and
suggest a possible role for mast cells in the pathophysiology of
non-allergic disease states."

Surgery. 2003 May:133(5):547-55. Increased surgical stress
promotes tumor metastasis. Tsuchiya Y. Sawada S. Yoshioka I.
Ohashi Y, Matsuo M, Harimaya Y, Tsukada K. Saiki f.

Ady Enzyme Regul. 1988:27:313-43. The medical and
metabolic consequences of administration of sodtum acetate.
Veech RL. Gitomer WL.

Am J Med. 1987 Mar,82(3):572-4. Cerebral dysfunction
and respiratory alkalosis during peritoneal dialysis with
D-lactate-containing dialysis fluids. Veech RL. Fowler RC.

Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2001 Sep:66(2):109-20.
Suppression of platelet-activating factor generation and
modulation of arachidonate metabolism by dietary enrichment
with (n-9) eicosatrienoic acid or docosahexaenoic acid in mouse
peritoneal cells. Watanabe S$. Doshi M, Akimoto K, Kiso Y.
Hamazaki T.

Cancer. 1991 Mar 1:67(5):1377-83. Fibrin formation on
vessel walls in hyperplastic and malignant prostate tissue.
Wojtukiewicz MZ. Zacharski LR, Memoli VA, Kisiel W. Kudryk
BJ. Moritz TE, Rousseau SM, Stump DC.

Neurotoxicology. 2003 Jan,24(1):65-73. Estradiol enhances
the neurotoxicity of glutamate in GTJ-7 cells through an estro-
gen receptor-dependent mechanism. Yang RC, Shih HC, Hsu
HK, Chang HC, Hsu C.

Cardiovase Res. 1992 Jun:26(6):603-7. Decreased collagen
mRNA and regression of cardiac fibrosis in the ventricular
myocardium af the tight skin mouse following thyroid hormone
treatment. Yao J. Eghbali M. Cardiovascular Institute, Michael
Reese Hospital and Medical Center (University of Chicago), IL
60616. "Thyroid hormone may selectively prevent the induction
of cardiac fibrosis and play an important role in regression of
cardiac fibrosis via endocrine pathways.”

Mol Endocrinol. 2003 May;17(5):831-44. Epub 2003 Jan 23.
Estrogen enhances depolarization-induced glutamate release
through activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and
mitogen-activated protein kinase in cultured hippocampal
neurons. Yokomaku D. Numakawa T, Numakawa Y, Suzuki S.
Matsumoto T, Adachi N, Nishio C. Taguchi T, Hatanaka H.

Regul Pept. 2003 Jul 15;114(2-3):101-7. Inhibition of
cytosolic phospholipase A2 mRNA expression: a novel mecha-
nism for acetylsalicylic acid-mediated growth inhibition and
apoptosis in colon caneer cells. Yu HG, Huang JA, Yang YN,
Luo HS, Yu JP. Meier JJ, Schrader H, Bastian A. Schmidt WE.
Schmitz F.

J Cataract Refract Surg. 2003 Jan:29(1):71-7. Sex hormones
and their receptors in patients with age-related cataract. Zhang
XH, Sun HM, Ji J. Zhang H, Ma WJ, Jin Z, Yuan JQ. ["The
testosterone level in the serum was significantly higher in the
control group than in the cataract group."]

Oncogene, 2004 Apr 15;23(17):3080-8. RRR-alpha-
tocophery! succinate inhibits human prostate cancer cell
invasiveness. Zhang M, Altuwaijri S, Yeh S.

eed

