Ray Peat's Newsletter

Copyright 2003

I wrote this several years ago, but each month
there was always something more topical to send
out. Every day, the mass media publicize and
promote dangerously mistaken ideas, so there was
always a more urgent seeming topic.

I always try to place concrete subjects in their
most appropriate context. As a person who studied
and worked in linguistics, literature, and art before
concentrating on work in biology and physiology, I
realize that language, imagery, and metaphor
always work within a specific cultural setting.
Seemingly infinite amounts of money can be
mobilized by strong metaphors. The War on
Cancer, the War on Drugs, the Genome Project, are
examples of using language deviously to manipulate
the public. Every issue, scientific or political, to be
considered sanely, requires that we look critically at
the contexts, and the contexts include the words, the
concepts, and the metaphors that we use to commu-
nicate with.

Culture is the context for political power. I have
often discussed topics in biomedical research which
reached their highest achievements in the first half

of the 20th century, and then declined in the second
half of the century, under the influence of the
pharmaceutical industry, and its servant, the U.S.
F.D.A., but this was only one aspect of a general

process.

A great and deliberate pollution has been
spread through world culture. While the U.S.
Government was secretly using Americans as
guinea pigs for experiments with radiation and
germ warfare, it was secretly spending vast
amounts of money (most of it from the Marshall
Plan) to support Abstract Expressionism in
painting, and parallel movements in other arts and
sciences. The CIA-funded Congress for Cultural
Freedom was representative of the way this public
money was used to eliminate freedom of expression.
“Liberals” and “progressives” were special targets
for this manipulation, but even conservatives such
as Henry Luce (publisher of 7ime and Life) were
induced to stop ridiculing Abstract Expressionism,
and to begin supporting it.

The suppression of critical judgment in art
makes it easier to suppress it in science, medicine,
and politics.

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

September 2003

I. Public Passivity and the Screw

If. Phenomenology of the State:
Marxism according to Groucho

Ili. Education for the Primacy of
Paranoia

L

The sports hero, the "world class performer,"
the producers of grand spectacles, by definition
are "excellent," better than everyone else at what
they do. When the culture is filled with grand
achievements, admiration is an appropriate
reaction, and participation isn’t. Almost the whole
population falls between the Olympics and the
Special Olympics, in all sorts of abilities, but their
culture is created from the top down. Similarly,
small businesses are squeezed out by monopolies,
craftsmen are replaced by computer programs,
insurance companies regulate the professions.
And as excellence becomes a theoretical standard,
everyone's performance is debased. The "quality"
that people like Donald Trump admire is unlike
the qualities that people used to enjoy.

"Freedom is not a concept in which people can
do anything they want, be anything they can be.
Freedom is about authority." Mayor Giuliani,
New York Times, March 17, 1994

Several years ago our local newspaper and
television music critics. raved about the
"acoustics" of the city's new 22 million dollar
concert hall. I had always wanted to hear Yehudi
Menuhin play, so when he came to town I got a
seat up near the ceiling, where I was startled to
find that the sound was coming out of loudspeak-
ers mounted in the ceiling. Electronically
processed sound, generated by vibrating metal and
plastic loudspeakers, can be heard even better at
home, without the "acoustics" of the concert hall.

The "quality" is in the minds of those impressed
by the cost of the building.

The words "client" and "patient" express the
passivity of the customer in relation to the lawyer
or physician. The same passivity exists wherever
"expertise" replaces self-reliance. The individual-
ism that was idealized in America has been
replaced by a client mentality.

The authority of power can't be questioned if
the people don't have their own knowledge,
ability, and power.

Il.

History attempts to make time coherent, logic
tries to transcend the incoherence of history, and
phenomenology tries to find meaning, purpose,
and motive in the incoherence and illogicality of
our social experience, primarily by eliminating
false assumptions. Governments and their educa-
tional systems are in the business of preserving
false assumptions.

The theory of monarchy is that only one
person has to think, so the citizen-subject can be
thoughtless. Other political philosophies are
one-thoughted, two-thoughted, etc., depending on
how little reality they admit. Hegel tried to get
complexity organized into the simplifying monar-
chy of the thought of god. Marx took the idea of
the dialectic, and used it to generalize reality, but
underestimated the difficulty of clearly defining
generalizations such as capital, when the bounda-
ries of the system were in a continuous process of
reformation. .

When knowledge and culture become impor-
tant parts of capital (“intellectual property,” and
judicially recognized “expertise” for example), the
ambiguities demand that the contributions of
Groucho Marx be considered as an extension of
classical marxism. Groucho said he wouldn’t want
to belong to any club that would have him. To
recognize the ambiguities of class and power is to
begin to grasp the phenomena of society. Identity
and belonging, language, concepts, names and
origins seem more important than physical reali-
ties. And that fosters the growth of a culture of
fraud and deception. Advertising, lobbying, and
bribery blend smoothly with art, science, and law.

Any statement, no matter how clear and
logical, depends on context--even scientific and
mathematical statements. Goedl’s principle and
computer-program glitches illustrate the idea.
Any statement demands a clarifying context, and
therefore a dialog. That’s the meaning of the
“dialectic” introduced by Hegel and expanded by
Marx. Everything has to be made clear by discus-
sion. Reality is more complex than any attempt to
formalize it. The reality is that laws and contracts
function primarily as traps, to give the appearance
of reason to acts of power. Contracts with insur-
ance companies, publishers, and state agencies are
famously meaningless, but any contract or law of
importance is nothing but an opportunity for
powerful groups to use the force of money and the
courts (or police and their weapons) to defeat
those who would assert some “nght” under the
law or contract.

"The most important Manhattan Projects
of the future will be vast government-
sponsored inquiries into... the problem of
making people love their servitude."

"To make them love it is the task

assigned, in present-day totalitarian states, to
ministries of propaganda, newspaper editors

and schoolteachers. But their methods are
still crude and unscientific."
Aldous Huxley, 1946

People who consider themselves to be the
state (whether or not they say “the State, it’s Me”)
have almost an identity with the Law. Laws were
written in the past, and since the past isn’t accessi-
ble, it’s almost as though a foreign power ruled us
from a distant imperial capital, and sent its agents
among us to apply the law to us as they see fit.
They are agents of the state, interpreting the law
for us, so that we may be bound to it. As soon as
they perceive themselves to be agents of the state,
their thought becomes the law.

The problem relates to social workers and
lawyers as much as it does to presidents and

- attorneys-general--their subjectivity fills not only

their world, but it intrudes into everyone else’s

world. Lawyers and presidents lie, not just
because they can get away with it, but because it
has become part of the job description.

The basic question about the state is where its
legitimacy comes from. The monarch used to
speak for god, and his clergy backed him up.
Republics kept the basic idea of the state, and
invented a new story about its legitimacy. But the
new government is always founded by traitors to
the old government. Treason is the essence of the
state. Treason is legitimacy.

The official implementation of the policy of
Loyalty Oaths made it clear that the government
of the United States aspired to totalitarian perfec-
tion. The same government had secret policies,
secret laws, secret programs, and acknowledged
that it had to he to its citizens. Citizenship
amounted to an arranged marriage between an
eight year old virgin and a syphilitic pirate.

If everyone who is now in prison were
released, and put into the jobs of government
officials, filing them from the top down, and
deciding among themselves who would go to
congress, who to the executive branch, to the
courts and state governments, nothing would get
worse, and it might get better, because the
question of legitimacy would be settled, and the
cost of bribes and campaign expenses would be
smaller.

Jury nullification is one of the few situations

in our democracy in which democracy and reason
can sometimes be seen in action, but it is limited
by the way juries are constituted. People who are
homeless can’t serve on juries, and neither can
people who need more to pay the rent than the $10
per day jurors commonly receive. Under Jim
Crow laws, white people always tried black
people. If juries really reflected the population in
general, or if they were actually chosen from the
peers of the accused (most prisoners are poorer
than those who condemned them), fewer of those
accused would be convicted.

Capital punishment, under our system, never
punishes capital. Ifa corporation’s officials delib-
erately take actions that they know will kill
people, it has committed first degree or aggravated
murder, and so its capital, all of its capital, should
be taken from it, as well as from those who took

the action. It is protested that “innocent investors
would lose their money,” but the protest makes
evident the truth that corporations are designed to
let people get away with murder for profit. Ifa
corporation is to be anything but a conspiracy
against the public, it must be fully responsible for
its actions. Investors, to protect their money,
would have to know what was going on in the
corporation. This is exactly the principle that is
now in practice regarding the confiscation of
property involved in certain crimes, primarily
drug crimes, but the reasoning would be even
clearer if it were applied to the corporate property
involved in corporate crimes.

The principle that no valid contract can be
made to do something tllegal takes legitimacy
away from corporations--and governments--which
are used to commit crimes, with simpler logic
than that used in confiscating airplanes used to
smuggle drugs. Likewise, a clause or implication
of a contract which is secret from one of the
parties to the contract is a logical impossibility,
and makes the contract a nonentity.

If a corporation is a conspiracy against the
public, with a prerogative to keep secrets for its
own profit, any government which has any secrets
from those it rules, is a conspiracy against them,
for whatever reasons it might have. The right to
have secret information is the right to lie, to rob,
and to kill, and those who assent to such govern-
mental power have no claim to legitimacy as
citizens. Any governmental action which is kept
secret constitutes evidence of the government’s
illegitimacy.

If power musi be open to be legitimate, then
the power to determine the intellectual content of
any educational curriculum must be open.
Governmental power is behind every recognized
educational institution, but nearly all decisions
about the accreditation of those programs are
made in private. If the reasons for imposing
certain curricula were open to full discussion,
then the educational programs would also be
more likely to incorporate the principle of
responsibility and evaluation.

As funding for education shrinks, the state is
seen to be exercising thought-control, in a simpler
and more direct way, when it specifies the

curriculum that must be followed in home-
schooling. When the state accredits educational
programs, or establishes private accrediting
agencies, it is delegating thought-control to the
accredited, or accrediting, agencies.

If the state, through its accreditation system
and its court system, can define what an expert is,
then it can define what knowledge and truth are.
The loyalty oath was the blunt object used by
Adolph Hitler, Strom Thurmond, Richard Nixon,
et al., to keep people in line. Education and its
accreditation, backed up by a prison system, are
the high-tech equivalent of the loyalty oath,
controlling the intellectually limited public as
effectively as the old system controlled the
morally atrophied.

Approved knowledge is made tantamount to
citizenship. Even beauticians have to be licensed
by the state. Schooling is the moral equivalent of
syphilis, but piracy is the prerogative of the
corporate-bureaucratic elite.

As long as knowledge is power, and power is
(able to define) knowledge, secrecy and ignorance
will be promoted and knowledge will be rationed.

Schools are already in the business of
rationing knowledge. The idea and practice of
“challenging examinations,” being able to get
credit in a course if you already know what the
course is supposed to teach, has essentially
disappeared, because, as Oregon’s Secretary of
Public Instruction Gubser told me, “what
students know doesn’t have anything to do
with education.” In my dealings with other state,
federal and private accreditation officials, I under-
stood that to be their functional attitude, but when
I heard the state’s top official blurt it out after her
evasions had failed to dissuade me, J realized that
the system was consciously conspiring against
knowledge. If people could get their diplomas
just by proving their (conventionally recognized)
knowledge, they would have too much time to
spend learning about reality.

I have heard many teachers say that it is
impossible to measure how much a student
knows, and my question has to be, “then how can
you know that?” And why are exams used to
choose candidates for college admission, or to
enter the practice of medicine or law, or to get a

driver’s license? Teachers, for whatever reason,

* function as part of the mystification that creates

the knowledge rationing system. Alfred Jarry was
describing schools and governments when he
wrote about the “debraining machines.”

The great danger now is that critical
consciousness is becoming so rare, that the State
will be able to extend the concept of “contempt of
court” to the administratively punishable offense
of “contempt for the legally constituted knowl-
edge.” The mechanisms already exist for doing
this. Forty years ago, Wilhelm Reich was impris-
oned, and his books were burned. The Mass
Psychology of Fascism, which analyzed the dirty
little character defects of authoritarian officials,
was destroyed as a “label for a medical device.”
The Murder of Christ, Listen Little Man, The
Function of the Orgasm, and other books about
the nature of social oppression and violence were
not even available to graduate students in psychol-
ogy. The academic apparatus in its entirety
conspired to maintain the official silence while
Reich died in prison.

At least until it is illegal to do so, we should
continue to ridicule, criticize, satirize, and
condemn the state power which is in itself an
abuse of reason and justice. Let there be a new
world disorder!

The attitude toward the past is everything.
The past, by definition, is unalterable, and can’t
be present again. Examining the record, we can
see how we got where we are, but knowing where
we are going is part of the life process itself.
Blake said, “Imagination has nothing to do with
Memory.”

Those who iry to “preserve the past,” by trying
to make it live again, in effect are trying to gain
immortality by imposing death onto life.

Institutions are things that persist from the
past, in someone’s way of life and attitude, that
are imposed onto life, over and over. Circumci-
sion is a metaphor for every institution. The living

- flesh is trimmed, pain is inflicted, attitudes are

repeated. “As the caterpiller chooses the fairest
leaves to lay her eggs on, so the priest lays his

_ curse on the fairest joys.”

Logic that works for established knowledge
can’t work for projecting the future. Logic

clarifies and orders the past, but lived intelligence,
imagination, is the mental tool that is appropriate

for the future, which is the only place we can live. -

We can get along very nicely without the
debraining machines.

I.

If the schools and universities have the
purpose of training people to be good employees,
then only the first two years should be required, to
teach reading and counting. At the age of 8 or 9,
the practical career studies could begin, in
engineering, medical services, judicial and
military services, food preparation, and entertain-
ment services.

But, if people were to be prepared to function
as citizens, to make decisions about how their
lives were to be lived, then the process of educa-
tion would be based on criticism, evaluation, and
on seeing things in all the relevant contexts that
can be imagined. And the process of education
and criticism would move toward the center of our
lives, and would be continuous, from infancy to
old age.

A wonderful variety of stupid beliefs has been
propagated from the centers of academic power,
and each type of stupid belief has tended to reign
for a generation, until a new, more oppressive
stupidity has been invented and imposed in its
place. The impossible ideas can be propagated,
because the educational system never learned how
to teach people to recognize when the emperor's
new clothes don't exist, and to say so.

When everyone is talking about the emperor's
new clothes, the person who trusts his senses will
perceive that a false belief is being propagated
when he sees that the emperor is naked. To talk
about the imposition of lies is to risk being classi-
fied as a "paranoiac." If everyone discussed the
alternative interpretations that seem reasonable,
then evidence would be evaluated in relation to
theories and assumptions. The basic violation of
reason then would be the authoritarian refusal
to discuss the issue. Secrecy for national security
would be recognized as the equivalent of a coup
d'etat, taking authority away from the public. .

The culture of computation is a development
of authoritarianism. Computers were conceived as

mathematical machines, to work out the implica-
tions of premises. Mathematics was always
popular with the established powers, because it
never questioned assumptions. The computers
that have been developed into manipulators of
images also make the manipulation of people
easier.

The “critical paranoia” that Salvador Dali
described was the basic mental process that used
to be called “wonder,” guided by the critical
evaluation of alternatives. The questioning curios-
ity aroused the speculative imagination, and the
quality of the perception--the richness of the
discovery--was suggestively related to its truth
and significance.

To be concerned with the meaning of life and
the quality of life is to wonder whether "this is all
there is," and to live in a state of exploration. An
educational system that is dedicated to the preser-
vation of things as they are, must stifle that
natural exploratory impulse. Because if it isn't
stifled, that impulse will look for a better way of
living. Our nature, so far, has been extremely
antagonistic to our nurture, and from that opposi-
tion the system has created the ideas of original
sin, corruption of the body, bad instincts, genetic
determinism, neokantianism, professional
training, and all of the other denials of essential
human intelligence.

The nature of our biological development
requires that the organism function and interact
with the environment as it grows. Education of
the intelligence is intrinsically related to the
proper growth and function of the organism which
is the person. The lack of stimulation or the wrong
kind of stimulation makes us sick, ugly, and
stupid. Schooling plays its part in degrading intel-
ligence, but the whole culture is structured to
warp our growth into forms that are convenient
for the functioning of the system as it is.

The argument for realism and bottom-line
practicality is often made, that accountants must
be trained to help corporations grow, and that
people would naturally prefer to learn something
more pleasant than accounting, and so there must
be extrinsic inducements and coercion. But the
higher realism and practicality argues that human
consciousness and existence must have priority

over any of the economic mechanisms that might
support a particular way of living.

The priority of human intelligence specifies
the means that are appropriate for education in any
setting. Intelligence is, by definition, responsive,
and responsive intelligence is necessarily respon-
sible. The sources of power in a society are always
integrated with the educational process, and the
manipulative use of control has always made the
process of education disappear.

The free use of education amounts to the
attempt to solve the problems of society, and so
education and intelligence would be of service to
society. The universities in third-world countries
have always been recognizable as servants of the
ruling classes or imperialists, but Europe and the
United States have fostered a perception that
universities existed to serve the public and to
educate for democracy.

If there were no secrets, power would be
administered in the open, and there would be no
conspiracies, or rather, the ubiquity of the process
would be evident, and a different term would be
used. But general awareness of the exercise of
power--stupid as power's actions have always
tended to be--would make things hard for those in
power. And so any factor that fosters a suspicious,
critical, imaginative, exploratory awareness and
questioning of the world tends to weaken the
concentration of power, and to share in the
exercise of power. Intelligence, as far as it exists,
tends to be revolutionary, and so education (if it is
essentially an exercise and development of intelli-
gence) must be devoted to the overcoming of
stupidity, especially when stupidity rules.

Frances Stonor Saunders, Who Paid the Piper:
The CIA and the Cultural Cold War (London: Granta
Books), 1999; The Cultural Cold War: The CIA and
the World of Arts and Letters. New York: New Press,
2000.

Pages 397-404: Tom Braden, director of the Inter-
national Organizations Branch of the CIA, said that by
1953, "we were operating or influencing international
organizations in every field" (page 398). When the
source of their funding was revealed many of the

people claimed not to have known, but Braden shows
that they had to have known.

A. C. Higgins, State University of N.Y., Albany,
commenting on Creating the Cold War University:
The Transformation of Stanford, Rebecca S. Lowen,
Berkeley, California: The University of California
Press, 1997:

“There's not a word in this book about fraud and
dishonesty in science. What is abundantly clear
however is the transition from the 20th century univer-
sity to the "Cold War University," a transition which
is nécessarily accompanied by the loss of idealism and
the core values of science. This new science is a
prostitute variety, ready for any comer on the open
market. What is important to the academic administra-
tor of the Cold War University is the bottom line.
Why should anyone expect honesty in such an institu-
tion? Indeed, it’s no wonder that fraud and dishonesty
are as common as they are. What is amazing is that
honesty and morality remains at all! It's now been 40
and more years since "entrepreneurial science" was
substituted for the older stuff. After 4 decades, is
anything of pure science left? Should we be surprised
at anything that happens?"

Ivan Illich, from the introduction to Tools for
Conviviality, 1973:

“Our analysis of schooling has led us to recognize
the mass production of education as a paradigm for
other industrial enterprises, each producing a service
commodity, each organized as a public utility, and
each defining its output as a basic necessity. At first
our attention was drawn to the compulsory insurance
of professional health care, and to systems of public
transport, which tend to become compulsory once
traffic rolls above a certain speed. We found that the
industrialization of any service agency leads to
destructive side effects analogous to the unwanted
secondary results well known from the overproduction
of goods. We had to face a set of limits to growth in
the service sector of any society as inescapable as the
limits inherent in the industrial production of artifacts.
We concluded that a set of limits to industrial growth
is well formulated only if these limits apply both to
goods and to services which are produced in an indus-
trial mode. So we set out to clarify these limits.”

"The only source of knowledge is.experience."
Albert Einstein

