 Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor, the third Friday of the month, and every third Friday of the month from 7 to 8pm the programme runs, and we have a live show where we take callers from 7.30 until 8 o'clock, inviting them to call in with questions either related or sometimes unrelated to the topic of the month's subject. This month we're going to be discussing skin cancers amongst a few other things. and treatment approaches and or prevention strategies the number if you live in the area or indeed if you live outside the area or you're from australia or somewhere like that is 707 923 3911 these programs are also archived on the web at www.kmud.org under the audio archives tab People want to scroll down to Friday Night Talk to choose the third Friday of each month. They keep them for about two months and fortunately most of these shows have been put up by several individuals on YouTube. So the YouTube channels also cover most of the shows that we've done. And our website, westernbotanicalmedicine.com, also has a link in the resources tab. Every show that we've done, bar the last few months of this year, are up there and free to download. And we do get calls and emails from people telling us how much they've enjoyed them and they've just come upon them and they've never heard anything like it. So that's why we do this. It's an alternative approach. I graduated with a degree in herbal medicine in England in 1999. I've been practicing ever since. And we run a business where we produce alternatives. Supplements, dietary supplements, to promote and support well-being. We've had on the show Dr. Raymond Peat with us for a number of years now. I think I last counted it was getting on close to 10. I'm always very pleased to have his wisdom on the show because he comes from a different era. Not just from his age, but also from the way things were understood back then and before the... financial interests steamrolled the way they do now. So Dr. Raymond Peat is on the show to join us this evening and are you there Dr. Peat? Yes, a lot. Well thanks so much as always for giving your time as freely as you always do every third Friday of the month on the show. For those people who perhaps have never heard you or never read your work... Would you give an outline of your academic and your professional background so that people know where you come from? I graduated from Southern Oregon College in 1956 with a bachelor's degree majoring in humanities and then I went to the University of Oregon for a master's degree, got that, and I taught for several years linguistics and other subjects and then in 1968 went back to the... University of Oregon in biology for a PhD 1972 and you've been working ever since then and you've you do your own independent research and you've you always always come up with at least a handful of people published people and other authors that show work that you probably wouldn't find too much evidence of now unless you were really digging for it deeply and indeed you spend you have spent and you still spend a lot of your contact you're a lot of your time um i actually started reading old medical textbooks in the 1940s in libraries folks i found that there was more interesting stuff in the old books than they were teaching in college that's why i studied humanities rather than than sciences at first and you've been applying your rationale to people when they approach you asking what would you do if such and such were happening and you've been doing this now for how many 30 40 years at least 45 at least 45 all right well good uh so without much further ado just want to remind people that is a live call-in show uh people do call in from california all over the states and indeed from abroad and the area code here is 707 nine two three three nine one one and incidentally the um we can be reached at the end of the business uh end of the show during normal business hours uh one eight eight eight wbm herb so there's a lot of ongoing debate uh between uh pro uv exposure groups and the cover-up anti-uv camps on the one hand solar uv radiation represents the most significant environmental risk factor for the development of non-melanoma skin cancer consequently protection from this is an important approach especially in risk groups 90% of all vitamin D in the body has to be formed in the skin through the action of uv radiation and the dilemma is the undeniable association between vitamin D deficiency and a host of pathologies ranging from various cancers like colon prostate and breast which have been confirmed in a large number of studies as well as bone diseases, autoimmune diseases, infectious and cardiovascular diseases and hypertension. So, vitamin D's benefit is pretty unquestionable at this point. So, strict sun protection causes vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency and the idea that sunlight and vitamin D inhibit the growth of human cancers is not new. So, looking at the radiation from the sun, the main... The main two groups are UVA and B, with the ozone layer taking out all of the UVC. So both cause damage. Now, the UVB causes a rearrangement of DNA, producing what they call photoproducts, which are known mutagens, causing cancer. And then UVA in its own right causes damage via oxidative type processes. And the suppression of the skin's immune system has been shown to represent another mechanism by which solar radiation induces and promotes skin cancer growth. So, I think just to start, I know I've mentioned that immunosuppressive properties have been demonstrated for both UVA and B, but I think just to go over what we've already mentioned, the topic cholesterol extensively, and hopefully people are beginning to get the message that cholesterol is actually not a villain. So, I think just to go over what we've already mentioned, it's actually very important and everything that, for want of a better word, the industry does to control cholesterol in patients that have quote-unquote high cholesterol, which you've already mentioned for anybody over 50 wants to be at least 200 milligram percent. And most people that are showing, you know, a cholesterol 200 or slightly above get put on statins and we'll talk about statins in a bit. Because there's even more evidence to suggest that they are very harmful and actually they do a lot more harm than any good that they've purportedly done, apart from increasing the profits of the companies that produce them. So, can you speak a little bit of the effect of skin cholesterol on the conversion by ultraviolet light, the conversion of cholesterol to vitamin D, and a difference between a young person's skin and an aging person's skin? Because I think if you mentioned this. The cholesterol content is a very important factor which has decreased in the elderly. Yeah, they've known for several years that over the age of 60 or 70, it takes about twice as much sunlight exposure to produce the same amount of vitamin D. And it turns out that that's simply because old skin has only about half as much cholesterol as young skin....is not confined to the skin. The age effect occurs in the adrenal glands, for example, which are the largest producers of not only steroid hormones but of cholesterol itself. The digestive system, the intestine, and liver are important sources of... cholesterol, but the brain and skin produce usually most of the cholesterol that they need. But all of those organs, the machinery for producing cholesterol declines with aging, roughly 50% by old age. And in the skin, it becomes obvious that the vitamin D... isn't produced in the sunlight, but every organ, the cholesterol, has many functions. The brain produces steroids from cholesterol, the same way the gonads and adrenal glands do. The skin can produce steroid hormones from cholesterol. And any injury to the skin, even intense blue light. Or injecting irritating substances will cause the skin to defensively increase the production of both cholesterol and the vitamin D derived from it to the extent that it can according to its age and health. Is this, can I just interrupt for a second, is this the mechanism by which you've mentioned in the past that the ________________ polyunsaturates and the lipid byproducts, lipofushkin in particular, being so oxidative damaged the endothelia and the body then produces the cholesterol to repair that damage and that actually is not a problem with cholesterol being found in blockage but it's actually the underlying insult but the cholesterol is an immediate response to that stress. Once the oxidative damage occurs ________________ That damage is enough to rouse the system to produce vitamin D and cholesterol, but the polyunsaturated fat, it's direct action on the cholesterol enzyme HMG-CoA reductase, it inhibits the production where the saturated fats don't inhibit cholesterol production. So if you're going to use ________________ any oil on the skin, it should be cocoa butter or cow butter or anything highly saturated and not any of the ________________. Right, you've mentioned this a lot of times now, so people out there that are using creams, especially for things like rejuvenating creams or anti-aging or wrinkle creams or creams that are supposedly ________________. Plumping up the epidermis and returning that youthful look should definitely not be based on polyunsaturates. Yeah, there were experiments about 30, 40 years ago on rabbits. They shaved their backs so that they were exposed to ultraviolet sunlight. And the rabbits that were fed polyunsaturated fats developed quickly wrinkled aged skin on their backs and the ones with saturated ________________. I didn't have that sun damage so the polyunsaturated, the double bonds are especially reactive to ultraviolet light but even through indirect pathways even blue light can activate the lipid peroxidation process. For example, vitamin B2, yellow vitamin, absorbs blue light and is excited chemically and it becomes reactive. Either the ultraviolet or blue light will create vitamin deficiency, in effect, impairing the ability of the cell to produce energy oxidatively and that leads to the production of lactic acid which creates inflammation. So even blue light can lead to a fatigued process of the cell leading to inflammation and degeneration. And this is via polyunsaturates and this is why you advocate eliminating polyunsaturates from your diet and just switching it all out to saturated sources and that over time you will change the mass of your fat content to saturated from polyunsaturated even though we do produce......some polyunsaturates ourselves. And it's coming to be recognized that stearic acid, a purely saturated fatty acid, has anti-cancer effect. Yeah, it's just a matter of time, hopefully, right? Okay, so you said that in an older person, just to recap here, that an elderly person has 50% less cholesterol in their skin......and that they need twice the sunlight exposure....to create the same amount of vitamin D. So, obviously, that's a big concern for... I know people, when they talk about people in nursing homes, we generally think about people that are well advanced, but besides the fact that they're not producing enough vitamin D, being indoors in a nursing home and not getting sunlight further compounds their chances of becoming susceptible to cancers. As vitamin D has been shown repeatedly to be a good strategy for protecting against cancers and I know you've... Just a couple of years ago there were experiments on hairless mice exposing them to ultraviolet light and then giving them topical vitamin D. Topical vitamin? And preventing the UV carcinogenesis by... by treating them after the exposure with vitamin D. for supporting good health. The number if you live in the area is 707-923-3911. Well, Dr. Pete, you've already touched on it lightly here without me asking you, but I looked at, while I was doing some background reading for this month's show here, I looked at the mevalonate pathway. Now, you mentioned HMG-CoA reductase as an enzyme. Without explaining all the step-by-step formation of steroids and cholesterol from acetyl-CoA, which is a natural process and one that's extremely important for us, you mentioned the enzyme. Now, statins, just to try and bring this around back to a point where people can help cement the idea in their mind that cholesterol is not a bad molecule, this mevalonate pathway and the production of cholesterol amongst many other compounds, including steroids, carotenoids, saponins, liminoids, etc. They're blocked by statins at this particular point in the pathway. So, another reason to avoid statins, and I know you've said many times and I'll repeat it again because there's going to be people that have probably just heard this for the first time, but if you're over 50 you actually want a cholesterol more like 200, 210, 220. It's actually protective but if you're taking statins to lower your cholesterol because it's supposedly too high and not good for you, which we've shown time and time again is actually bad science, using statins and blocking this enzyme will lead to a deficit in all those other steroids and all the other products from which cholesterol is a building block. It's now gradually being realized that ubiquinone or coenzyme Q10, which is... a product of that same enzyme that the statins lower that and it's an essential component of the mitochondrial respiratory system. And when a tissue is stressed, such as a muscle during exercise, the mitochondria fails to produce enough energy and that can lead to the breakdown of the muscle and sometimes the muscle breakdown......plugs up the kidneys in effect and kills the person, but very commonly it's causing muscle pain made worse by exercise and that's because of damage to the mitochondrial respiratory system mainly, although the structural effects of reduced cholesterol will affect the structure and function of mitochondria, but since the brain and other organs use the same... coenzyme Q10 and mitochondrial processes, the muscle damage is just a very noticeable thing where the cognitive damage is less noticeable. Yeah, more cumulative. You mentioned lactic acid obviously being a byproduct here and being very inflammatory. Is that apart from this coQ10 decrease or is it in conjunction with it? It... is a necessary adaptation to anything that impairs oxidation. Okay. So do you see any of the other steroid hormones or like I mentioned the carotenoids or saponins even or the liminoids part of the isoprenoid formation of essentially what we would term components like you would find in essential oils, the terpenes and terpenoids. Is there anything there that you would see that would be... I suspect that even body odour will be affected by it because it's known that some of these perfumy chemicals made by that pathway are involved in the fragrance of a young person's skin oils. And so I imagine it would tend to make a person lose their young fragrance. Interesting. Okay, all right, so I know that's a serious from a health perspective, but it's an interesting take on it. Just an aside, what do you see as a direct link, if you like, or the way you understand it? I mean, some people just don't smell good, okay? Some people, you don't smell them. They have no smell and, you know, they don't have to bath for two days, three days a week, you know, and they don't smell. Other people... have to bathe every day and you smell them and they smell bad. Alexander the Great, who apparently had great vitality in general, he was famous. Historians wrote about how sweet he smelled. People would collect his used garments because they had a permanent perfume infused into them. Everyone under stress can emit different chemicals, for example, isoprene. Tends to show up during nighttime stress. Oh, really? Okay. All right. So how else do you see body odour? I mean, apart from the kind of medical definitions of, you know, just bacterial breakdown yeast and, you know, byproducts of that kind of thing. In a healthy person, the skin under the influence of thyroid hormone and feedback. From the progesterone, which is produced in the skin from the cholesterol. But insulin and thyroid hormone are very important for keeping the flow going from energy through cholesterol into the steroids. And then those steroids include, among some of the minor androgens, the pheromones, the sex-attracting... steroids, both in men and women. Some of the testosterone-related minor androgens create a perfume that is very closely associated with high production of the steroids. Okay, so you call it perfume. Would you also describe it as a musk or a a disagreeable smell though? I mean, presumably attraction should be... you know, preceded by something pleasant, right? Rather than... Yeah, many people aren't aware of those smells, but experiments show that they're influenced in their judgment about a person by the smells on their skin. Interesting. Well, I'm only saying this because I come from a perspective of a sort of... still somewhat kind of medically... brainwashed, but in terms of the liver and its process for deaminating and breaking down toxins and making them ready for excretion because we don't want them building up because they're toxins, is there any link perhaps to liver dysfunction? Oh yeah, when the liver is failing, the fats that it should be breaking down and excreting. Can come out in the breath. On the breath, okay. But how about in generalised body odour? Oh yeah, acutely they show up in the breath. Just for example when you get hungry, if your liver isn't efficient, things in your tissues will come out in your exhaled breath. But chronically they accumulate and come out more gradually in oils. That's funny, we call this, excuse me, we call this death breath and you find it on children too and in fact our five-year-old, you know, if we haven't made sure that she's, because she's so active, I mean she's very, she's bright, she's intelligent, she's fast, I think she burns a lot of calories and if we don't constantly feed her then... the day before, the evening before, she'll wake up in the morning and she'll have this smell on her, that's obviously one of the process by which you've described and she doesn't have it when we're really conscious about making sure she gets plenty of sugars during that day and in the evening she has a sugary snack and then she's totally fine, you don't smell it, it's night and day. you Other like migraine headache, anything where the blood sugar is inadequate and the stress hormones break down tissues. Okay, interesting. All right, well it's 7.26 and the phone lines have been ringing here and I've been told we do have a couple of people ready to step in. So let's just take this, we've got plenty more things I want to ask you about but I know that the show really is about exposing you and I like it when people call up and they... ask you stuff and they challenge you to think about the way you think about it. So let's take this first caller. Caller, you're on the air. Hi, my name's Chris and I'm calling from Southern Humboldt. Southern Humboldt. And the first thing I want to add to your little discussion here about fragrances, I had a friend who was a monk and he was a Tibetan monk, but he was actually English and he was quite cultivated. And anyway, he was eating, I'm trying to think, rose petals. Okay. And he smelled wonderful. I mean, he was probably like Alexander, so maybe that was the secret. But what I wanted to talk to you about, Dr. Pete, was, I don't know if you remember me or not, I know you talk to a lot of people, but I talked to you, I inquired with you about monk fruit sugar. Do you remember? Oh yeah. Okay. Well, I've done a lot of research on it so far, and I'm even trying to get the local community college to possibly start to grow monk fruit sugar. as a research product but anyway the wonderful thing about the monk fruit sugar is in china it's the reason chinese people don't get fat because they don't eat table sugar like we eat they don't need cane sugar they're eating monk fruit sugar exclusively and believe it or not they've been using it for as long as there's been chinese people on the planet i don't know how long that's been but they've used it for controlling diabetes in fact it's absolutely wonderful for that and i've done some research for you guys the reduction of the inflammation and oxidation if monk fruit is administered regularly like half a teaspoon every day you will reduce or eliminate inflammation and oxidation entirely absolutely well dr p um obviously uh you both you and i uh and lots of people that we consult with and do the same thing are big advocates of regular white table sugar uh what do you uh what do you have to say about monk fruit sugar and how uh would you see this being a positive uh anti kind of diabetes type um i actually think any sugar but especially fruit sugar and any sugar is a good treatment for diabetes because Glucose is a promoter of stem cell renewal in the pancreas and it opposes, tends to suppress the free fatty acids which are produced under stress and the free fatty acids are constantly killing the beta cells in the pancreas every time they regenerate under the influence of glucose if there isn't. Enough glucose to suppress the free fatty acids then regenerated beta cells get killed again. So keeping the fatty acids down is the essence of curing diabetes and any kind of fruit. If you eat enough of it, it's going to help. Please inquire and ask you, I beseech you, please look into, it's called LuHanGou. It's L-U-O-H-A-N-G-U-O, that's its Mandarin name in China, and LuHanGou is monk fruit. Please do some research on this, because I really think it's going to help a lot of people that have diabetes, and I think it's really going to help a lot of people that have problems with chronic inflammation. And that's all I have to say. Have a great night. Okay, thank you for your call. Engineer, you said that you... I just did a really quick little research and... There is about 35% fructose and sucrose in it, but there's actually a chemical they're calling, it's a triterpene glycoside, a saponin triterpene glycoside that gives a lot of the fruit, the sweetness, and that's a powder they extract and concentrate. So I suspect it's more like stevia than an actual... So Dr. Pete, knowing what you know, if you've looked at monk fruit sugar, do you have anything else to say about it as a substance and all? And or a direct comparison to glucose or sucrose or fructose obviously? No, I haven't seen any comparisons of it in diabetes. Yeah, well no problem. Okay, we have another caller on the air. So caller, you're on the air. Where are you from and what's the question? I'm from New York. I'm Dr. Pettis. We spoke before as well as the prior caller. And it's consistent, following up on a recommendation you mentioned, but it's consistent what you were talking about with vitamin D. I had a skin rash and I had been prescribed cortisol creams and all kinds of stuff, a lot of side effects, decided not to do that. I asked you about it and you had recommended, you know, salt and baking soda bath, like a pound each, daily, and I think you also mentioned vitamin D. In addition to that, I did take a high volume, like 50 billion units of... not just acidophilus, but a mixed variety of those types of products. And it got better, but it took like five months. It is coming back now. You also had mentioned a very minor way, and so I have two questions about that. One, you'd mentioned vitamin D as well, and not so much vitamin A. I did get a vitamin D test, and it was 39, which is not dangerous, but is low. And I am, you know, I am, you know, older, over 60, so I was just wondering what is it that I could do to get that vitamin D level up, even though I am applying it topically, the sun doesn't seem to work, and trying to overcome the point she made at the outset of this particular show. That's the first part. The second part is, when they gave me cortisol, I was thinking, the adrenal glands make cortisol, right? So, if you get older, your adrenal glands are, quote, less....efficient, for the reasons you mentioned earlier, is that why they're suggesting topical cortisol? Because you can't make enough yourself? And if that's the case, it seems to me you would want to take adrenal hormones to more rejuvenate your adrenal glands so that you can make your own cortisol and let your body decide how much to make and where to repair. So it's the vitamin D in the adrenal glands. It did heal. It took a very long time, but it is actually coming back now. So I'm wondering... Have you tried any supplements like DHEA or progesterone or pregnenolone? Well, you know, I took pregnenolone, and it actually is great, but I just... I don't know...I don't know whether it affects my body's ability to produce it, but I feel...obviously you feel great right away. In the way you've mentioned in the past, but I just don't know how it dynamically affects......other hormones and whether or not it's actually making testosterone or converting to estrogen. You know, because I do run a little bit, and frankly, I did run today. It's funny you mention this also about the damage you can do by running. And afterward, I did actually take some COQ10. Coincidentally, I don't know why I did it, but then have you say it, and I thought, wow, that's interesting that you said that. Maybe that's a good idea if you're going to run, even if it's just a little bit. Just to keep the blood flowing, taking COQ10 seems to make sense as sort of a defensive measure because there are some benefits of running, which I know you don't espouse, but it's important for me. And obviously you want to do it in a way that reduces the damage. But I have taken it. I do have topical progesterone. Being a man, I don't do a lot of it. And I have DHEA, and I've taken that a little bit. But again, I'm just not sure. How to take them, in what quantity, how often, and how they would interact with what my body's trying to do. So I kind of have them, but I'm not actually sure how to use them, to be honest. Have you checked your thyroid function? Well, I do take 30 milligrams of the thyroid, but I do the natural desiccated for the same reasons I just mentioned. It does have some liver in it, so I don't know if that's a problem, but I do take it. And my temperature was great during the summer. I know you've mentioned this before. I mean, it was much better. Now it's actually a little bit lower. I'm finding it in the morning in the low 97s. So, you know, I try to get to 97.6 or 7 or 8 in the morning, but I'm a little bit, about a half a degree lower than that. So, you know, I could increase it, but I don't, you know, you're not depressed, your energy's not lower and I can get my energy up. If light helps, dry CO2 is phenomenal. Yeah, I think I have, I definitely have a weaker thyroid and probably running hurts it. Other things hurt it, but I try to stick to your diet to minimize the risk. Carrots hurt it too, by the way. I think my blood sugar drops when I take that carrot. It may help my stomach, but it hurts my thyroid function. But it goes away, it goes away. So the answer is yes, I do take a little bit of thyroid, but only 30 milligrams or one grain. I could up it to two, but... The question is, when do you take that during the day? Do you do it always in the morning? Do you do it at night? How do you spread it out? How does it affect my ability of my own thyroid to determine how much it needs and when it needs it? All right, well, let's let Dr. P answer what it is that you've asked and thanks for your question. So we got a question about the vitamin D status. I think you said it was 36, did you say 39? 36, I think. And then cortisol, obviously concerned about adrenal production. So Dr. P, thyroid is essential for making all of these steroids, and in a young person the ratio, when you're under stress, there's a lot of cortisol produced, and that will, in a healthy person, that will also increase the cholesterol, pregnenolone. DHEA and progesterone backing up the cortisol, but with age there's a constant decrease in the ratio of DHEA and the protective steroids in relation to cortisol, so that even though your average cortisol might stay the same with aging, in effect it's becoming constantly more active, you're more susceptible to side effects from the cortisol exposure because your DHEA, pregnenolone and progesterone are going down constantly with aging along with the decreasing cholesterol in all of the tissues. Okay, I think just a mention here that everybody is very variable in their absorption of vitamin D and for some people you know 2,000 or 4,000 IU a day is... fine to keep their vitamin D up around 40, 45, 50 some other people use 10,000 IU a day and it does depend I think weight is a factor that can lower the absorption of it somebody's body weight but basically using vitamin D as a supplement is probably one of the best ways to get it as part of this month show we were going to discuss the actual production of it but basically you get... 90% or so of your vitamin D if you're not supplementing from the sunlight so if you're really not in the sun that much and we're going to talk about the scale here of vitamin D that's produced by sunlight versus the cancers but topical or internal use of a vitamin D compound either Thorne Research do it, Life Extension do it, Carlson Labs do it you know there's plenty of it available and it's not expensive but... to get your vitamin D in the 50 nanogram per mil range is a very good strategy for maintaining good health but let's just take this next caller, next caller you're on the air, where are you from, where's your question? Mike from Connecticut Hey Mike, what's your question? Yes, I just wanted to know, repeat the thoughts on the skin care bacteria and the role they play in health is it like what's in the gut where you want to keep the bacteria at a minimum? And if it's so, is the UV a good treatment for killing the bacteria in the skin? And just wondering if there's other ways to balance that. I find that UV treatment has actually been quite potent to treat my acne. And I'm just wondering if that's something that's valuable for UV or if there's other ways, like red light or any other way of controlling the bad bacteria in the skin. Yeah, I had a little trouble hearing the very first thing you said, but did you say carinobacterium, as in the bacteria that cause acne? Yeah. Both of you cut in, I couldn't hear that was... He said yes. Hello. Yes. Okay, good. So Dr. P, did you get the question now? Yeah, I think thyroid and vitamin D are major factors in the immunity. There is another cholesterol metabolite, 25-hydroxycholesterol, which is very similar in function to 25-hydroxyvitamin D. They're very structurally similar, and they both activate the immune system, and I think they work right along with vitamin A. and the thyroid hormone in keeping the skin bacteria under control. Okay, so Dr. P, I've got lots more questions, so we'll see how far we get in terms of people calling in or not. I wanted to know whether or not a vitamin D would be a useful topical treatment, maybe not directly on suspicious skin lesions, but maybe adjacent, like I know you mentioned progesterone shouldn't be typically topically put on, but adjacent to an area, and then let the... product migrate, which it will do through the skin. But do you think that the topical application of vitamin D with a saturated fat, either coconut oil or something like that, would be a reasonable approach to improving the vitamin D status in the skin? Because I know they interplay between cholesterol and skin cancers. There's a definite causal link between vitamin D cholesterol levels in the skin and the formation of skin cancers. So do you think... Yeah, I think both vitamin D and cholesterol especially with saturated fats to compete against whatever polyunsaturated happens to be in the skin. I think all three of those have a good chance of overcoming the precancerous condition. In a typical cancer, there will be a fully cancerized zone surrounded by lower degrees of conversion of the cells as if something is being emitted from a center causing a gradual progressive change in the surrounding tissue. It isn't that cells are traveling out, it's that... The surrounding normal cells are gradually being injured the closer they are to the cancer. And part of that is that the normal metabolites are being suppressed by the toxins such as lactic acid being emitted by the cancer cells. And fairly well saturating the skin both from the bloodstream internally... taken supplements but also from things applied topically in the vicinity are going to keep those precancerous cells from going the rest of the way and increasing the tumor. And about 20 years ago someone was taking samples from facial skin of people who were just normally exposed to daylight. And they found that almost everyone, with any outside light exposure, had quite a few mutated cells, precancerous cells, in their facial skin. But when they covered the skin, for just a few weeks, that same area that had been producing streams of mutated cells were entirely free. The mutant cells showed that the body is able to kill off the bad cells and replace them with fresh, non-cancerous cells given the chance of letting them simply rest from the damage. Presumably this would be in instances perhaps where there wasn't severe and repeated sunburn as a direct cause of mutated DNA. But which is a very slight irritation that's not such a severe... Yeah, and other people looking at middle-aged people who had been killed in accidents found that everyone at the age of 50, if you did a thorough autopsy, everyone has cancer by the age of 50 somewhere in their body. Same principle as... They saw in the facial skin, if you stop injuring it, it's going to return to normal. Most people don't die of cancer, even though everyone by the age of 50 has cancer. So the thing is to stop making cancers in your body as far as possible. I think that's the function of applying things such as progesterone. Vitamin D, cholesterol, maybe mevalonic acid. Yeah, I want to ask you about that in a little bit, but we do have another caller, so let's take this caller. Caller, you're on the air. Where are you from and what's your question? My name is Chris and I'm here in Humboldt County. Okay, Chris, what's your question? And I apologize in advance if I, you know, I'm basically asking the same question someone else already has. I just turned on the radio. I love you guys. Joe, so I appreciate the time you guys put in for it. I'm a white 51 year old. I grew up in Southern California getting baked on the beach. I have been severely sunburned several many times as a kid and then within the last 10 years I've kind of fought skin cancer a little bit. It's not the melanoma, it's the meso-thermal or whatever. A basal cell carcinoma or a squamous cell? I think it's the meso maybe. It's supposed to be a less aggressive one. Yeah, well, actinic keratosis is the start of it I think. Yeah, so that's the thing, you know, I've gotten to where I can kind of recognize it and I've had... you know, a couple spots cut off and then I was called back in to cut off some more because they found it around the periphery and basically what I'm kind of noticing is that It's basically all over, you know, there's tiny little spots You know, maybe it's pre-cancer or whatever, but it's like well you try to cut all that stuff off. I won't have any skin, so I'm kind of wondering... you know, what you guys would recommend, what I should do, or maybe even direct me towards... I don't know, if it's on your website, some literature that I should do some research. Sure. Dr. P, okay, so what would you suggest for this 51-year-old Southern Californian who's been burnt severely several times? His description of the process reminded me of another person in Southern California who had cancer on his ear. The doctor said he was going to have to cut off his ear to cure the cancer and the guy didn't want to cut off his ear and so he put I think it was progesterone or a mixture of progesterone and DHEA on it and a week or two later said it fell off and what the ear he said no the cancer. Progesterone and DHEA. DHEA. Now I just want to put the caveat out there and Dr. Pete you would agree with this because you're the one who stated it but in terms of using DHEA you need to make sure that your thyroid is working well otherwise you've risked the you know you run the risk of converting that DHEA into estrogen which you don't want to do because that in its own right is a pro-cancerous compound so make sure your thyroid function is working well and or you know if it isn't use a thyroid hormone so whether it's a desiccated natural or indeed synthetic which is absolutely fine you should be making sure that your thyroid is working well so that you can convert that DHEA appropriately. And sometimes skin cancers heal up just for increasing the thyroid because the thyroid is going to increase the production of cholesterol and and the immune steroids. Um, I guess uh... that would require a visit to the doctor to check out my thyroid function or something. Well you could, um, here's the thing though, uh, you will probably find, well you know what, it's a good idea to get a metabolic panel done, um, and see what your TSH is like. I found a lot of people have really overt symptoms of low thyroid which improve dramatically with thyroid hormone when they're... labs come back showing that their TSH is within the normal range. So that in and of itself is not diagnostic. Your temperature and pulses will be a very good way to see what your metabolic rate is, which is the underlying, you know, driver of your metabolism and hormone conversion, etc. So, you know, you can get a blood test to see what your TSH is like. It might be, you know, fairly high. So that would be clinically a way to show that, but... your temperature and pulses would be the best way to do that. Okay. And is the DHEA and progesterone, is that something someone can just go... Yeah, yeah, they're both non-prescription. Both DHEA and progesterone are both non-prescription. They're dietary supplements, basically. Okay, awesome. All right, thank you guys. Yeah, you're welcome. If you want to, you can always email me. I'll send you a link to some resources that you can look at, and indeed links of where you can buy quality products. Broder Barnes was a person who showed how effective the temperature check could be for diagnosing hypothyroidism, and his books are still available on the internet, I think. Very important to read for everyone. There you go. Broder Barnes. Okay, we have, excuse me, we have two callers, so let's see if we can squeeze them into the next at least eight minutes. Caller number one, where are you from, what's your question, and can we try and be as concise as we can? I'm from Long Island, and you mentioned skin, but vitamin E wasn't mentioned, and I know there's vitamin E and tocotrienols, and I was just wondering which one is preferable, and how would you use them in the context of this dialogue? The second question I have is royal jelly versus bee pollen. Are those the same thing, and are they recommended, or too much pufa? Thank you. Okay, thanks for your call. So, did you hear the first question about the vitamin E? Yeah, there is some information that the tocotrienols can, in large doses, in experimental animals, they cause... liver enlargement, which suggests that they're treated as a toxin by the liver. And so ever since seeing that, I've been suspicious that maybe they're over-emphasizing their value because of the amount of money they can sell them for as succinct from a traditional vitamin E. And one of the problems with vitamin E is... it can preserve the amount of PUFA in the tissue, so it's important to keep your polyunsaturated fats down, as well as using the vitamin E to block their effects as far as possible. Okay, so, very quickly, the royal jelly versus the pollen aspect. I know you don't really agree with bee pollen because of the possible allergenic effects, given that it's, you know, collected from such a wide range of plants. What about royal jelly? I know that's kept a fair amount of press. It's extremely rich in nutrients, and if there was a lot of it, everyone should probably eat some of it, but you don't want to steal the bees' food, they're already having problems. I know. All right, without going any further, we have two more callers, so let's take this next caller. Caller, you're on the air, where are you from? Yeah, hi, I'm from Redway, California. Hey, what's your question? Well, I have a, I guess, like, yes, I have a question. And an observation first. My 97-year-old grandmother recently was diagnosed with a squamous cell carcinoma on her nose. And the doctors were saying, look, you're going to croak before you think you'll, you know, it's, but it was annoying to her. So she's like, and they said, well, we're gonna have to cut your whole nose off, basically, to get at it. And so we tried... What kind of cancer was it? It was a squamous cell carcinoma. Yes. Oh, I've had several old friends and myself with little cancers on the face. They went away in, from as little as a week to six months of applying progesterone or DHEA to them. And a friend who was, I think she was 94 at the time, her face was being eaten away by melanoma. And just a few applications of progesterone and DHEA. Nearby, there was a hole so that she couldn't put it directly in the melanoma, but... Well, I have another question for you, which is that we applied cannabis oil as an alternative method and tried efficacy within two weeks. I mean, she had it for about four months, four, five months. And you know, when I started telling people about this, they advised me, they said, look, you know, that's anecdotal. Go around telling people that cannabis oil cures cancer, because you know, it'd be weirdo. Not doing traditional medicines and favoring the camp. You guys, I mean, but this happened to my kid. Now, like you said, maybe it went away on its own. It was a coincidence that we applied that oil. That could be. And I just can't do the show, so I don't really know what you guys have been talking about that much. But I would like to get your thoughts, since you guys both need to be medical professionals, on the potential efficacy of cannabis oil, whether it should or should not be administered, and what results other people are finding with it. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, I'm afraid I don't. The only thing I would wonder, was the product, in what kind of oil was the product extracted in, or was it just... Olive oil. Olive oil, right. It was basically hash, it was basically hashish mixed with olive oil, if you get on to it, what it was. I think the olive oil is more therapeutic than the cannabis oil. I heard somebody say that too, they said, you know you don't know, maybe it was the olive oil. Okay, well, aloe leaf is another thing that people have used successfully on skin cancers to squash the aloe leaf on it. Aloe, really? It was shocking to know that the doctor basically had no, you know, thoughts on it. He was like, look, the only aloe... The doctor she went to was saying the only, you know, real remedy here for his excision, you know, just cut the nose off, and obviously she didn't want to do that. But it's encouraged you to note that there are other, well for anybody listening to the show, that we could, what you guys have been talking about. The oleic acid, which is the major fat in olive oil, increases synthesis of cholesterol. Well that's great, I mean, so, olive oil, I mean, wow, who knew? I appreciate your input caller, thanks for your call. Yeah, thanks for doing the show. Yeah, you're welcome. It's a couple of minutes to eight, so I'll let you sign off, Dr. B. Thanks so much for your doing the show as you've always, you know, I say always have, I can't remember when you last didn't, but thanks so much for your time. Okay. Okay, so we probably only got through about half of what I wanted to get through, but that's always good. I always like it when people call in. It shows that people are listening and they're interested. And even when they sometimes don't call in very much, I get feedback on the internet from the Ray Peat forum etc. Just seeing just how many people are actually listening to it and wanting to actually hear what Ray Peat's got to say rather than other people. So it's always a catch-22. I know Dr. Peat likes to be engaged with people, calling up, and I know people like to hear what Dr. Peat has to say. So for those who called in, thanks for your time and your questions. For those who've not heard about Dr. Peat, or maybe only just listened to him once or twice on the show, he's been doing this, like he says, for 45 plus years now, and a PhD endocrinologist who actually practices what he preaches, so that's the big difference there. His website is www.raypeat.com, and he's got plenty of scholarly articles that are fully referenced, and will give you a very different perspective on things that you've... been told are the way they are and fortunately they are not the way they are, but they are alternatives. And for those people who also want to take a look at our website it's www.westernbotanicalmedicine.com and on the resources tab there are audio files from all of the shows that we've ever done. There are probably about eight months worth that still need to get put up from this year, but... I'm working hard in the background to get this done. And also on YouTube, there are most of our radio shows on YouTube. So thanks so much for the callers, and until the third Friday of next month, have a good night, and welcome to the rain in southern Hamburg, anyway. Okay, good night.