 This free program is paid for by the listeners of Redwood Community Radio. If you're not already a member, please think of joining us. Thank you. Redwood Community Radio comes in part from the Security Store Incorporated in the Meadows Business Park and Redway, featuring watershed dry bags and pelican cases in many sizes. Both have lifetime warranties and have been tested over time in Humboldt County. The Security Store has solutions for all security needs and is open Monday through Friday, 9 to 5. They can be reached at 923. 2363. It is 7 o'clock, 85 degrees outside our Redway Studios. We are Redwood Community Radio, KMUE Garberville, KMUE Eureka Arcata, KLAI Leightonville, K258BQ Shelter Cove, and on the web at KMUD.org. And... The views and opinions expressed throughout the broadcast day are those of the speakers and not necessarily those of this station, its staff, or underwriters. Time will be made available for other viewpoints. Thank you for joining us. And KMUD thanks Jessica Baker of Jade Dragon Acupuncture for her support of Redwood Community Radio. Practicing traditional Chinese medicine, Jessica treats conditions ranging from psoriasis to post-traumatic stress. Located at 607 F Street in Arcata, J-Dragon Acupuncture can be reached at 822-4300 or check her out online at www.jdragonacupuncture.com. And here comes Ask Your Herb Doctor. Music Music Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray and for those of you who perhaps have never listened to the show which runs every third Friday of the month from 7 to 8pm, we're both licensed medical herbalists who trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. We run a clinic in Garbleville where we consult with clients about a wide range of conditions and we manufacture all our own certified organic herb extracts which are either grown on our CCUF certified herb farm or which are sourced from the UK. From other USA certified organic supplies. So as per usual, I've still got the same intro, but Sarah is not joining me today. So you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMED Garble 91.1 FM and from 7.30 until the end of the show at eight o'clock you're invited to call in with any questions either related or unrelated to this month's subject of Environmental Enrichment. And, amongst other things, we're going to cover a few other topics of interest as well as look at a couple of recent articles that have caused a bit of a stir and that we are going to refute for the bad science they contain. The number if you live in the area is 923 3911 so from 7.30 to 8 o'clock onwards callers are very welcome to call in with any questions about the show's content either this month's or any previous content they might have questions about. And if you live outside the area there's a toll-free number is 1-800-KMUD-RAD which is 1-800-568-3723 and we can also be reached toll-free on 1-888-WBM-ERB for further questions during normal business hours Monday through Friday. So once again very welcome to introduce a seemingly permanent fixture to the show thankfully for his wisdom. Dr. Pete thank you for joining us. Okay I guess as always I'd like to just give an introduction of your academic background for perhaps those people who've just tuned into the show and have never heard you before. In the 60s I taught biology and literature and painting and various things but then I went to a grad school at 1968 to 72 studying biochemistry, reproductive, ageing, physiology in general and since then I've been continuing some of the same projects that I started back in the late 60s. Okay and you're fairly prolific, I think that's the right word, in terms of producing newsletters that can be accessed by people wanting to make a subscription to your newsletters. And also you're a pretty constant and avid researcher of topics, both old and new, finding out the truth, if you like, about where the science is coming from. And that leads me on to a couple of articles I wanted to discuss, or wanted you to discuss, the bad science portion of the articles, because one of them caused a fair amount of stir in as much as the topics that we've talked about in the past, things like salt. Being good for you and sugar being good for you and saturated fats being good for you. The saturated fat seems to be working its way to the surface now with the medical establishment seemingly doing a U-turn on the polyunsaturates, saying that the polyunsaturates are bad for you now, actually the saturated fats are good for you. And hopefully in time here the same thing will happen with sugar. But recently there's been an article that was published that seemed to shoot down the benefits of sugar and it was done with mice. And they... They were using two different groups of mice. The bottom line with the article was that... It was calling sugar poisonous. And was saying that it had the same kind of effects in terms of the results as when they tested mouse groups that were inbred. And that the same negative effects were present in the sugar group as were in the mouse group that were inbred in terms of their ability to control territory. And dominate others as signs of their healthiness and their ability to find the best place to sleep and mate with the best females. So, you're familiar with that study done in Utah, the university in Utah, that said that sugar was bad for the mice and it caused an early death and all sorts of things. Yeah, it just came out a couple of days ago, and people have been contacting me about it, because it basically says that the amount of ________________ sugar, fructose, and sucrose in three sweetened drinks that Americans, a large part of the population, average that many per day, that that amount given to mice causes extremely high mortality, next best thing to rat poison for the high rate of mortality in a period of a fire. I think it was 32 weeks or 36 weeks, 35% of the sugar-reared females died and only 17% of the so-called stock diets, females died. That sounds bad on the face of it doesn't it, you explain the science behind their findings. Yeah twice as many deaths in this fairly moderate period of time. Just from drinking the equivalent of three sodas and that was so weird and extreme I looked up what that group had been doing before this study and they were working on, as you mentioned, inbreeding and they found that the inbred mice had a high mortality and aggression was designed into their living arrangement so that they thought of it as accelerated evolution, apparently, in which the survival of the meanest would be evident in a very short time. And it happened several years ago, just a year or two before they switched from their inbreeding studies to the sugar study. There were three or four papers published showing that a diet enriched in starch and polyunsaturated fats powerfully increased aggression and mouse killing in rats. So the connection between starch and polyunsaturated fats and aggression was clearly established and they had an environmental set up that allowed aggression to kill off part of the population fairly quickly. And so I don't think it was just an objective study of the effect of sugar because the so-called stock diet consisting of some grains and soy......protein or soy flour and corn starch, added 25% corn starch, so the grains contained the polyunsaturated fats and it was a model of the aggression-promoting diet, but they didn't mention that in their publicity about the fact that the so-called normal diet allowed higher survival in the females than the sugar-rearing diet, with the equivalent of three sodas per day. So what they did was create an arrangement in which feeding the one group of animals so that they became aggressive. The setup was such that they could... take over the food supply, the nesting arrangement, and generally bully the weaker animals until they died. So that extremely high mortality is not produced by drinking three sodas a day. It would be if you had to associate the sugar-reared population... with the population living on starch and polyunsaturated fats would endanger the passive people. All right. Can you hear any buzzing on the line? How's your, how's this phone line to you, Dr. P? So far, it's perfect. Good. Okay. I just heard the buzz. Maybe it was just on my end. All right. So unfortunately, as another example of some skewed science to produce results in the direction that was favorable to the outcome, which was that sugar was bad for you, when actually it was not modeled correctly, and the actual findings weren't realistic. Okay. So that's the first thing, and then... There was another article from a study done in Italy, which referenced the intake of T4, specifically synthroid, which is a fairly common prescription for thyroid deficiency, and a link between synthroid use and lung cancer. So that caused, again, a little bit of a stir, given that quite a few people are using synthroid for low thyroid function. In terms of synthroid's use and its activity as a compound, what did you find about that study that was erroneous? There were animal studies with lung cancer specifically that are very relevant to that and they found that T3, the active thyroid hormone, inhibited the growth of the cancer cells. But that T4 increased their growth and increased the metastatic ability of them. And that's similar to some studies that started about 30 years ago published in JAMA. There was a study in, I think it was the late 80s, comparing......studying a group of five women who had been treated for hypothyroidism with T4 only, such as Synthroid, comparing them to a group of women who weren't given any thyroid supplements. So they had chosen a group of hypothyroid women and reported that the ones who received... the T4 or Synthroid had a higher rate of osteoporosis. But since low thyroid is compensated by a high cortisone and high prolactin and other stress hormones which cause bone problems including osteoporosis, what they were doing was looking at a population with......the deficient thyroid problem treated insufficiently with something like 100 micrograms of T4. And it has been known for decades that women are much less able to convert T4 or synthroid into the active hormone. So it's especially inappropriate for......treating women with hypothyroidism to give them only T4. Right. OK, from a perspective of being stimulant to turn up oxidative stress in terms of T4's activity, I don't think... You're not really an advocate of just using T4 anyway, in terms of its physiological effect and its usefulness. In general, both of the... thyroid hormones, if you can convert the thyroxin into T3, they both can have a very important anti-oxidative damage function. By increasing the rate of useful oxidation, they keep electrons from escaping from the electron transport chain in the mitochondrion and prevent the random....oxidative damage, just uncoupling the production of the energy, so you're wasting oxygen and fuel with some drugs, for example, that used to be used for weight loss, which activated the oxidation the way thyroid does, but without producing useful energy, even that kind of uncoupling. is known to reduce oxidative damage. So when you're finding increased oxidative breakdown products, when you give T4, it shows that you're not activating oxidative metabolism the way thyroid normally does. You're interfering in some way with the respiratory system. Okay, well thank you for that. Those two articles, like I said, caused a bit of a stir, but obviously they're not in the right context. Okay, so you're listening to Ask Europe Doctor on KMUD Garberville, 91.1 FM. From 7.30 to the end of the show at 8 o'clock, callers are invited to come in with any questions they have, either about tonight's subject or previous subjects. The number if you live in the area is 923 3911. If you live outside the area there's a 1-800. Beg your pardon, yeah, 1-800-568-3723, number 1-800-KMUD-RAD. Okay, well let's move on to the main topic of tonight. The subject of environmental enrichment in terms of negating the effects, if you like, or staving off the effects of brain atrophy and also the reference to Alzheimer's. Seeing that this enrichment now is proposed as a new approach, if you like, for the treatment of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative disease where lab findings show an association between Alzheimer's and increased levels of destructive inflammatory mediators like nitric oxide and cortisol, as well as prostaglandins. What do you know about this topic of environmental enrichment and its perspective to energy? Anti-inflammation. That observation that Alzheimer's people have drastically reduced living variety, they tend not to socialize as much as people who are resistant to Alzheimer's, as that started me thinking about the general range of stimulation and animal studies. Beyond simple, more or less voluntary isolation that people, old people often develop the habit of just staying at home and watching television or something, beyond that animal studies did various things, isolation at different ages, separating the baby animals from their mothers right after weaning, giving them solitary confinement until they're middle-aged, and even tightening up their environment to the point of holding them so they can't do anything at all. There's a gradient all the way from living in a playground, basically. With slides and wheels and various colored objects, balls to push around, and so on. All the way down to being rolled up in a blanket so you can't move. But you see the same things happening. The worse the stress is, the smaller the brain gets. Depression is known to... increase cortisol and cause atrophy of all of the tissues, and that includes the brain. So they see that after about three years of just being psychologically depressed, people show a smaller reduction of the brain volume. And animal studies starting in the 1960s at University of California, Berkeley... They first found that animals given stimulation, a big playground to roam in during when they weren't eating and sleeping, they found that they learned better, could solve problems better. So they examined their brains to see what was happening and they found that the enzyme cholinesterase... was increased in proportion to how much they were stimulated and how well they learned. And they kept that study going on generation after generation and found that it not only increased this enzyme that destroys acetylcholine, it involved enlargement of the whole brain, especially the cortex. And each generation, both the enzyme increased and the brain got larger. So it's passed on. Yeah. Physiological sort of inheritance, which is getting some study now in the last ten years. But at the time they were just interested in the fact that......the environment could cause these major biological changes, especially in the brain. But a lot of people said, well, if you're destroying acetylcholine at a higher rate and the brain gets bigger, that must mean you have more activity of the cholinergic nerves making acetylcholine. But that isn't what they found. They found that the enzyme that destroys it was increased. As the brain got bigger and that kind of reasoning without facts shifted over to thinking about the deterioration of the brain in Alzheimer's disease and they saw that there was less tissue in the brain. Parts of the brain especially in the cholinergic part and no one suggested that maybe overexposure to acetylcholine might have something to do with why the nerves atrophied because the various stress signals increase the various factors that cause brain shrinkage. So they proposed poisoning the enzyme cholinesterase which was associated in the animal studies with increased intelligence, memory and brain growth. They proposed doing just the opposite, poisoning that enzyme to increase the amount of acetylcholine in the brain. And the first drug that was proposed and used according to that. The theory was tachrine was the name of the chemical and several studies by the late 90s they were seeing that it did absolutely nothing for the Alzheimer's dementia but it did cause a terrifically high incidence of liver disease. In the 70s it happened that Parkinson's. disease was they were looking around for other things than L-DOPA to treat it with because that didn't work too well and some virus treatment investigations have found that a derivative of camphor or a similar compound that was used to cure herpes and influenza also had nerve protective action and they thought why not use this amandadine or adamantane amine to treat Parkinson's disease and they found that it did benefit Parkinson's disease which involves among other things an excess of acetylcholine and this amandadine was known right from the time of the virus studies it was known to be an anti-cholinergic drug and it was recognized as an anti-cholinergic when it was being used to improve Parkinson's patients but the Alzheimer's people seeing the success with Parkinson's disease wanted to try it in their population but since they were already treating with something that increased the cholinergic acetylcholine they couldn't very well switch right over to something absolutely opposite to inhibit the cholinergic system so they suddenly discovered that as well as being anti-cholinergic, amandadine and the very similar, memantine, they found that they also inhibit the excitotoxins, the glutamate aspartate excitatory system. So suddenly this anti-cholinergic drug became an anti-excitatory drug and was fit to be used in Alzheimer's patients. In combination with tacrine or the galantamine or other drugs to poison the enzyme, which this new drug was activating. Wow. Do you know, are these two compounds you mentioned? Tacrine and galantamine? Well, amantadine and momentanine. Are they still, are they still prescribable drugs? Oh yeah, momentanine I think is now a standard Alzheimer's treatment along with whatever toxin of the cholinesterase inhibiting. So this was, because I was always, I mean in terms of my physiology, studying herbal medicine, I was always taught that acetylcholine. It was a very important neurotransmitter, and it was mopped up in a synaptic cleft by acetylcholine esterase, and that prevented any overstimulation firing. So, for what you were just discussing right now, we're talking about a kind of excess situation where there's an excess. Um, yeah, um, you know, um... Inescapable stress. Right, right, there you go. The stress hormones, rather than pushing higher and higher on the cortisol and adrenaline direction to excite things, run the heart at a faster rate, the body shifts when it sees futility, inability to escape. It can simply switch gears and turn off that system and turn on the acetylcholine cholinergic system. And the confinement, inescapable stress, which is the extreme of isolation, the extreme opposite from enriched environment, this turns on the... The cholinergic dominant system which lowers blood sugar and in consequence lowering the blood sugar activates histamine release. Some of the acetylcholine nerves such as the vagus nerve amplified their influence by releasing histamine which is... It's very similar in its effects to acetylcholine. So you can think of this kind of inescapable stress as turning on the histamine type of cholinergic reaction. So this is really a kind of death situation. This would be going towards death and away from life. Yeah. Biologically. In the learned helplessness experiments of the 60s, Martin Seligman......is the person who made that famous, he's now doing military research, he found that if you almost drowned a rat but saved it, even the rats that saw it being saved would swim on for days before they drowned, and if you put the saved rat back in, the experience of being saved......would cause it to swim much longer than the average rat that might give up after a day. That sounds like the seed of hope to me. Yeah, but if you simply held the rat in your hand until it got the idea that it was powerless, one experience of being unable to escape, you would drop it in the water and it would basically drown in 30 minutes. Wow, wow. Far out. Let's go ahead. The state of the heart they found was in a turned off state, basically a cholinergic anti-mobilization of energy state. Wow. We do have a couple of callers obviously, thanks for that explanation, it's pretty profound. So let's take this first, let's take the first caller. You're on the air? Is that me please? Yeah, you're on the air. Where are you calling from? From Oregon House, California, which is close to Nevada City. Okay, thank you. Yes, the first question has to do with toe fungus. Dr. Peach, you mentioned in the past that sulfur was good for fungus, and I was just wondering if it would work with toe fungus and if I should use some DMSO to get it in there. And the second was, I was wondering about your thoughts on irradiation of food. There's a 10% sulfur soap sold at drugstores. They might not stock it on the shelf because it's too cheap, but it works very well for athletes' foot, anywhere on the body. This is a bit deeper than athletes' foot, it's actually in the nail bed. Yeah, once it gets into the nail, it's very hard to get anything in there. It's possible that DMSO would help it penetrate through the nail, but the fungus actually lives. Right inside the thick nail material. I have been using a dremel to thin it out as much as I can bear, but I'll try that too. So about irradiation of food, do you have any thoughts about that? Yeah, it's been known for a long time that it breaks down all of the fragile, easily oxidized nutrients, changes some of the amino acids, turns tryptophanes. into some toxins. The advocates of it, the radiation waste disposal industry, it's a good way to get rid of radioactive waste, to put it into factories. They do studies and claim that it almost doesn't change the food at all. It seems like the... The idea behind it in part at least is that they could drop supposedly drop their sanitation standards to zero and then rely on their patient to kill bacteria Yeah, yeah, but it does It changes the flavor fairly drastically it gives it a rancid flavor almost instantly But the public gets accustomed to degraded food Yeah Okay, well, thanks very much Thank you for that cool caller. Okay, do we have any other? Yeah, Mike, will you say the next caller, please? Yeah, hi, I'm calling from the Saline Creek Watershed and I got a question about Kava That, you know, supposedly the most powerful angiolytic there is And all of the, are you, am I on air? Hello? Yeah, you're on the air, I can hear you And all of the studies done, I went to an herb school and the eastern part of the country. And that, you know, like it was my teacher's favorite herb also. And it's something that I use chronically, or I guess. Yeah, anyways, and the thing that I'm curious about is like, I've heard that a lot of the studies done that say that it has liver damage were done on like, well, you know, like one of those studies where they gave us the above ground parts instead of just the below ground parts. And I'm curious about your thoughts and opinions on that. And if you know anything about that study. Yeah, I do. Um, the the parts that are used anyway are the roots. And the study that showed this, another good example of skewed science, showed the hepatotoxic effects of kava were actually done with a hexane extract of kava kava. And actually, the hexane is probably more carcinogenic than anything else. In terms of its use in Fiji, and parts of tropical Philippines. Where they grow kava and use kava in Hawaii too, ceremoniously, there's no real recorded incidents of any liver toxic effects of it. So you would think, I know that's probably an aqueous extract, so they don't think they use ethanol to extract it, which it is typically extracted in a 45% or 60% ethanol. You can definitely make, I've definitely made fresh kava tincture with 95%. Okay yeah. It works great. Yeah well that was that was the main bit of science that came out was with a hexane extract and I believe it was to animals it was in an animal study so I think it was a rat or mouse study that showed liver damage and the liver damage almost exclusively was down to the hexane. Well do you see any long-term negative effects of using kava tonically? Um I can't say that I've witnessed any long-term effects myself. I know a lot of people use it for skeletal muscle relaxation. That's its main indication, is to relax skeletal muscle, which is why it's termed an anxiolytic. Yeah, I think ceremoniously when it's used, it's probably ingested in large amounts, and so I think it does have a fairly profound relaxant activity. If you were to use Kava Kava in a, quote, therapeutic sense. The dose would probably be nowhere near as much and you'd probably experience some general anxiolytic action, but not as profound perhaps as you would if you were in a Kava ceremony. Totally. I feel like the way it makes your mouth tingle, it makes your whole mind and body tingle too. That's how it works. Yeah, that's the hallmark of Kava. Well, thanks for your input. Yeah, you're very welcome. Have a good one. Yeah, thank you for calling. Okay, we have another call on the line. Let's take the next caller. Hello? Hi, you're on the air. Yes, I want to ask something in regard to the thyroid. Now, my situation is my thyroid is a bit low, and they have me on 88 micrograms of something I think they call levroxine? Yeah, levothyroxine. Okay, is that the same as the synthroid? Yeah, it's T4. Okay, it's T4. All right, now, yeah, sometimes I get the 3 and the 4 mixed up. And I asked the doctor, the endocrinologist, do I need to take the T3 as well as the T4, and he said that we convert T4 into T3 automatically. Yeah, well, is that true? The reason women have five to ten times the number of thyroid problems of all sorts than men do is that their liver... is relatively unable to convert T4 to the active T3 hormone efficiently. In the 1940s, when T4 was synthesized and brought out as a product, it was tested on male medical students, and it worked in them just the same as armor thyroid extract. But they didn't bother testing it on a female population, which... Well, I've been having tests, you know, fairly regularly to see how it's doing, and they keep telling me that my thyroid is now normal. Well, the old normal concentration in the blood of T4 and T3, when the gland was producing it and the liver was activating it, or when a person was using armor thyroid. As a supplement the ratio. Well I'm not using that so I mean is this working for me or is there a reason for me to take the armor instead or what? Well if you have any symptoms of hypothyroidism remaining then that would mean that your liver isn't activating the T4. Well when they take it when they do the blood test and they say that my my thyroid is at a normal level that's they changed the normal level of previous to the use of pure thyroxin there was a very slight difference like a four to one or ten to one ratio of thyroxin the t3 in the blood but now they consider 50 to one to be normal and are you saying that test the blood test isn't reliable for me to know The blood test has been standardized on a population of people who have been using only thyroxine rather than the natural thyroid or people who have no thyroid problem at all Well now if I took the armor that has the T3 also, does that mean that I'm going to get, you know, make better use of it or it's going to be... It's exactly the proportion that your own gland secretes and then the liver, if your liver is responding to the active T3 secreted by the gland, the liver will go ahead and convert the rest of the T4 to T3. But if you take armor thyroid and metabolize it perfectly, your blood test is going to show excess......above normal T3, because they've standardized the test to say that normal is what is produced by taking thyroxine... Well, if it's going to help me, I might try it. How long does it take to take it before the test will show differently? Well, if your TSH is in the low normal range, and if your temperature and pulse rate... are good, and if you don't have any symptoms, then you're handling it properly. But what are the symptoms of having a low thyroid? Our cold hands and feet are very common. Low blood sugar, anxiety, fatigue, depression, dry skin, edema, inability to go very long without getting hungry, craving sweets. I don't think I have too much of that. What happened is I had had atrial fibrillation and they discovered that I had a high or overactive thyroid, which I'd never had before. I don't know what caused it. It came on and the only symptom I had was the heartbeat, irregular heartbeat. So they told me there was basically, I could take something called methimazole which would lower the... the thyroid, but it would make me very susceptible to bad infections and you had just lots of difficult side effects. The other thing they said I could do was have my thyroid basically, most of it destroyed by taking a radioactive iodine treatment and that sounds drastic, but it seemed like, well, if I shrink my thyroid down below... normal with this, then that's it. And then all I have to do is take thyroid and that's not going to have the side effects of the misdemeasur. So I chose to do that. And then, you know, gradually the thyroid, you know, started to shrink and it seems to have stabilized where I need to add the 88 micrograms and then I'm okay. What do you think about, about, you know, doing that for if you have hypothyroid, a hyperthyroid to do the, uh... There was a study of people with hyperthyroidism treated by three different kinds of doctors. One did surgery, one did the radioactive iodine to kill the thyroid, and the third group got just the thyroid-suppressing chemical. And the patients on the chemical, most of them, after six months, recovered. And, uh, the......portion, about 30% that didn't recover in six months, with another six months they recovered, just with the suppressing chemical. And then they went on to have a functioning thyroid afterwards, rather than having it destroyed. Well, to me, I already had it, but it didn't totally destroy it. They calibrated it so that it would just be a little bit below normal. And I would still make some thyroid, but I'd have to have it, you know, add some. I just didn't want to take the chance on the chemical because there were so many side effects. Whereas once you lower it with the radioactive thing, then that's done. You're no longer radioactive. They say it goes straight to the thyroid gland and shrinks it, and it doesn't go anywhere else in your body. So that's what's going on. So now I have to add the thyroid. So you're saying that if I don't have symptoms of hypothyroidism, then I should just stick with what I'm doing and I don't need the armor? Yeah, the temperature, pulse rate, and symptoms are good indicators. Yeah, I don't have cold hands and feet or, you know, I think everything's normal. Sometimes I get fatigued, but I think it might be a result of the going through the intense heart thing, you know, because it took a while for that to get balanced. So right now everything seems to be getting better. Well, thank you. I want to give omebody else a chance. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you for your call. All right, we do have a couple of other callers, Dr. Pete, so let's take the next caller. You on here? Yes, this is David from Missouri. Hi, David. Dr. Pete, I wanted to ask about what I'm starting to gather from, you know, reading most of your nutritional philosophy and then also looking at the East-West Healing Cookbook. that you wrote the foreword for and I've noticed that on a lot of the food preparation that they will take the seeds out of like cucumbers and tomatoes and you know you always skin the potatoes and I think I understand why but I just wanted to understand this a little bit better I know that we don't want seeds because they have poly infatuated fats but you would think that a lot of those seeds would just pass through but is it because a lot of these things will lodge in the crooks and crannies of the intestine and possibly just sit there and become an irritant or possibly the bacteria will feed off of that because it's I don't know some seeds some seeds do pass through harmlessly like cactus pear seeds they're so tough that they pass through without being an irritant but tomato seeds are so tender that if they get crushed by chewing they release fairly toxic materials protein oxidizing and seeds in general are protected for the plant's benefit by toxins that are aimed at whatever predator threatens them so many seeds contain toxins that are intended to prevent mammalian enzymes from digesting them aha so like like a blackberry seed you know blackberries i mean they seem so good but those seeds they seem like they're just going to get stuck in the intestine somewhere you know they're so hard is that is that a possibility are those going to pass through are they going to create that toxic effect They pass right through unless you chew them and and have an allergic reaction Okay, and so like the potato skin obviously that is not digestible So that's going to probably sit in the intestine and feed bacteria or is that going to pass through to no cellulose is a very harmless fiber because of bacteria generally Can't break it down only a few types of bacteria can attack cellulose. So it passes through just as bulky fiber, but the potato family like the tomatoes, the whole family includes chemicals that are highly allergenic, so if you're allergic to tomatoes you're likely to have some reaction to chilies, eggplants and potatoes too. So you're saying just the whole potato in general or the skin itself? The skin has the most allergens. Okay, so it is good idea to peel that then, more than likely? Yeah. Okay. And then the other thing is, you know, I've noticed that you recommend, it seems like, you know, you don't say for sure on this, but you usually will say just plain white sugar rather than like the, you know, like if you go on the health food store now, they're always promoting these. Cane organic sugars that aren't refined, so they're not white, they're like brownish colored and different things. I guess the problem with these things that are not more purified is that they have allergens allergens in them or possibly things from the processing of the different substances. Is that? Yeah, if you've ever tasted blackstrap molasses, sometimes you can taste smoke in it. And they used to burn. The cane fields, to make them easier to harvest, and so they would be smoky, and then they would boil it down, and the molasses would collect minerals, a lot of nutritious stuff, but also the junk and smoky material. And even with a very clean material, like maple syrup or the... Magade juice, those come out very clean and when they're cooked, the high temperature, if it's browning the sugar, that's breaking down the sugar itself and producing some highly irritating, possibly toxic materials. So if these different sugars were produced properly, they would be great, but we're kind of playing it safe. By just getting white sugar, this is probably the purest form of glucose and fructose, right? Yeah, if they could, for example, be concentrated in a vacuum with a moderate temperature, maybe something like pasteurization temperature, that would be a very safe way to make sugar without having to wash the brown stuff out of it. So you could... And then so like the fructose that you can buy like in the health food stores you had mentioned to me in an email one time that You know, you've just got to make sure that you don't have a reaction to it I guess what you were indicating there is that How they produce it again is potentially a problem. Is that correct? Yeah, I think it's all made from corn starch industrially and You have to Just test it yourself. Some people have a fairly intense quick reaction allergic to it. Other people do beautifully on it. And I'm not sure if it's the person's difference or the product's difference. And if you did find a fruit toast that worked best for you, or if it worked and you didn't have an allergic reaction that would be the ideal of sugar, right? Yeah. But fruit is really ideal because you get so many other nutrients with the... the sugar okay and you know just one more question since you brought up fruit like eating grapes that are seedless grapes is that skin a problem on a grape was it going to stick stick in the intestine and then feed bacteria or is it usually broken down pretty quickly one problem with grapes if you don't wash them very carefully is that the white bloom on the skin if you if you rub it and polish it that comes off it's because yeast grow on the waxy surface of the skin I've wondered about that because you can almost see it yeah and so the fungus growing on the skin always has its normal amount of estrogen in it which could be a drawback so even if you just chewed it really really well it probably still wouldn't help in that aspect would it? well yeah but a moderate amount of grapes I don't think that amount of irritation is going to worry most people okay well thank you thank you for your call okay okay we do have, we've got two or three more people but we're definitely going to have time for one more and depending on how depending on how quick the the caller is their question or their question is then we might get to some more but let's take the next next caller and a very quick addendum to the last call is does cooking deactivate the enzymes in tomato seeds and then we'll get to our next caller yes it deactivates the enzymes but it doesn't uh destroy the allergens okay next caller you're on the air oh hello hi i'm evan from mckinleyville okay one of my questions was already answered regarding his position on sugar so we can skip that one okay and i wondered what his position on salt and um and fats is each one salt and fat salt and fats what kind of salt yeah what kind of what kind of fat were you asking about at the beginning of the program you said something about his positions on sugar salt and fat. I can't remember what you said about fat. We were talking in relation to saturation and polyunsaturated. Dr. Pete is very much a pro advocate of saturated fats and he's very much very much behind using salt and getting adequate salt in your diet. And does he talk about what kind of salt? Well I know Dr. Pete you want to answer that. Yes clean white salt like sea salt without additives is good. Yeah okay all right. Yeah that's the end of me so maybe somebody else can have a turn. All right. Thank you. Thank you for your call. We do have one more call and if the caller wants to keep it short we should be able to squeeze you in. Just go ahead. Hi I'm calling from Whale Gulch far west of the state. Okay thank you. I have a question but I also want to say to the other callers that what's been recognized about Alzheimer's is that it can come with iron deposits in the brain and this traditional herb from India turmeric has been recognized as being able to chelate that iron. Like you have curcuminoid receptors throughout your body. Curcumin is the active chemical component of turmeric so you can consume turmeric to help with Alzheimer's. It'll help remove the excess iron deposits and above that it also helps rebuild the collagen and removes the other deposits from your joints too so it helps with arthritis. And as for the telofungus... Neem is the traditional medicine to use. Neem oil you can use topically. Neem you can take internally. Also potentially activated charcoal because it's likely that a dude has like a bacterial problem in his body and you could consume the activated charcoal but you can use the neem oil directly on the fungus also. And to facilitate the liver you can consume dandelion root. It's an excellent liver tonic. Dr. P, what do you think about the iron deposits? I know you've always mentioned iron in a very dangerous reactive element. That fits right into what we've been talking about. The stress hormones that lead to Alzheimer's disease. Iron is sort of the end point of all of these changes. Nitric oxide and the prostaglandins. Activate enzymes which release and deposit iron in the brain where it then continues amplifying the destructive reactions. Okay, I'm afraid it is almost eight o'clock. So I want to make sure that I give out Dr. Pete's contact details for people who want to find out more about him. And we'll just spend these last couple of minutes thanking Dr. Pete for his time. Thank you so much for joining us, Dr. Pete. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So okay, the web address of Dr. Pete is www.raypeat.com. He has lots of articles that he's published, and I've all fully referenced scientific journal articles, if you like. So go to his website. He's got a big resource there for information, not just on tonight's topic, but lots of information on thyroid, hormones, good fats versus bad fats, salt, sugar, et cetera. So, until the third Friday of next month, my name's Andrew Murray, we can be contacted on 1-888-WBM-URB for any questions Monday through Friday. Next month will be in September, folks, and heading towards the fall. Hope the weather's going to be good where you are. Okay, till next month. And support for KMUD comes in part from Golden Dragon Medicinal Syrup. An herbal elixir made without heat or ice, Golden Dragon Medicinal Syrup is edible, topical, cosmetic and water soluble. Information is available at GoldenDragonMedicinalSyrup at gmail.com. This is Redwood Community Radio, KMUD Garberville, KMUE Eureka Arcata, KLAI Laytonville. K258BQ Shelter Cove and on the web at KMUD.org. It is 759, 81 degrees outside our Redway Studios. We have a special treat. Little Rock is sitting in, but you will get just as funked up as you normally do. So enjoy. KMU.org Thanks for watching! Please remember that this program is supported by the listener members of Redwood Community Radio. If you like what you hear, please consider becoming a member of KMUD or renewing if you've already joined. A regular yearly membership is $50, but we accept any amount. Help us keep free speech alive.