 If you liked the video, click the thumbs-up and subsctribe. Further details and more at www.vintrospektiv.de Thanks for watching! 1. Rwow Well, welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. My name is Sarah Johannesson Murray. For those of you who perhaps have never listened to our shows, which run every third Friday of the month from seven till eight p.m., we're both licensed medical herbalists who trained in England and graduated there with a degree in herbal medicine. We run a clinic in Garbleville where we consult with clients about a wide range of conditions and recommend herbal medicines and dietary advice. And you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMEB Gov or 91.1 FM and from 7.30am until the end of the show at 8 o'clock you're invited to call in with questions related to this non-subject and they're going to be related to the California SB 277 which we'll get into here in a bit as well as the degradation of the food supply which both are intimately linked one to the other. Causal effects come from many different places and they all add up to a very decreased quality of life for most people. We're very welcome to have Dr. Raymond Peet joining us on the show this evening. Dr. Peet, you're there? Yep. Okay, thanks so much for joining us again. I think firstly what I wanted to just discuss, I know we did go over vaccination, I think it was back in June of 2014. And ran through the introduction of vaccines and mentioned that vaccine disease rather was in freefall decline before the introduction of vaccines through good food, increased sanitation and clean water etc. in especially in industrialized countries. So going on to what has been described as another bill to wipe out yet more choice. Thank you. California's bill 277 seeks to impose mandatory vaccination and no either religious or ethical exemptions. So people are not going to be able to say it's my belief that I believe there's a better future for my child if I don't vaccinate them or I have a religious preference against vaccination. But um let me let me just first I kind of forgot I get a bit too excited about this month this bill only came out yesterday so it's kind of last minute top of the hour thing for us I know we're going to get into the degraded food in the food chain and bring out the whole uh yeah the whole well we'll talk about a bit later on but anyway but it all amounts to a very decreased health perspective for most people in terms of what it is they eat if they only knew what was in it but would you just please first start um by letting people know your scientific and academic background for those people who perhaps have never heard of you um my phd is from the university of oregon in biology in 1972 i've taught in a few different institutions um state university of mexico veracruz university and uh two or three schools in the united states um but um a variety of of uh science courses including immunology uh at the university of veracruz so i'm even though i didn't specialize or study it i learned somewhat uh what's going on in in the immune system and that teaching had got me interested in uh following the development okay all right so uh a good introduction for people who've never heard of you um okay so talking about um the senate bill 277 now so abolishing most opt-outs so i think the only exemption is going to be uh permitted medical exemptions for uh either immunocompromised um children maybe receiving chemotherapy for leukaemia and that kind of thing or um immunosuppression drugs and or those people who are currently using antiretrovirals for hiv etc um so but there'll be no choice to opt out for people that don't believe that the science uh is pointing in the right direction last june we talked about the um studies that were done uh initially um by world health organization with those three populations of which um sarah do you want to talk about that because it's something that you've been more familiar with well dr pete's very familiar with that okay well okay so dr pete why why don't you bring that out again i you go ahead um the world health organization around i think it was around 1970 that they did it i read it a little after that they took three villages i think in guatemala and left one as a control population the other one they sent the regular public health team with a vaccination and getting I think it was chlorinated water for the drinking supply just the usual minimal public health things and then the other one they provided a nutritional supplement to all of the pregnant women in the village and during their breastfeeding time and to the children and the relative to the control village that didn't have any doctors or help sent in. The medically treated village, the health got worse by several measurements. And the health in the village that simply got the nutritional supplement was generally better as well as the kids being bigger and healthier and more intelligent. Okay, so the World Health Organization then came up with the conclusion that actually the far cheaper and easier thing to do was to use vaccination as a standard of care. Yeah, but that isn't a popular thing with the world pharmaceutical industry because they want to sell drugs rather than food. Yeah exactly, I'm saying much the same thing as that the introduction of vaccinations is a very... a very easy way to deploy material to Third World and other developing countries as a supposed way of increasing people's health. But okay so getting on to this Senate Bill 277 and they're basically saying that California is going to be one of only three states that have mandatory forced vaccination with no opt-out, the only other two being Mississippi and West Virginia. I think for anybody listening who really does take this to heart and wants to find out more information, I'd really like you to jot down this web address which will outline the senators involved, where they get their funding from, namely Merck, and what there is to lose behind allowing this bill to become law. I mean that's the essential, well quintessential part of American life, isn't it? It's life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness and freedom of choice, isn't it? OK, so the website. It's www.s4sugarb4bravo-277.us and that article will outline everything that you might want to know about the epidemic of vaccine legislation funded by Merck that's happening currently. So in terms of the vaccines, they say there are going to be 34 to 36 vaccines mandated by the age of six years old and then obviously there's another batch of vaccines from the age of six. Through 18 and then still further vaccines mandated from 18 on and I think this does apply to schooling and other institutions for Education I think all in all it's a total of 69 vaccines that are scheduled on the schedule for child a baby child and a teenager to receive. So Dr. Peay, do you have anything that you think about specifically with regards to vaccination and what's been shown in the scientific research to support the argument for healthy standards of living and nutrition and clean water etc. sanitation as being far more important than vaccination? Yeah, the history of looking at the relation of......vaccination to disease, specific disease incidents and mortality, goes back more than a hundred years. And Ivan Illich was one of the first people to do a survey of the research that had been gathered over the years. I think Suzanne Humphrey's website is a good introduction too. That perspective and she also has some information on the actual effect of the vaccine material on the baby's immune system and the need for taking a completely new look at what the immune system is, how it relates to the development of the person rather than to fighting disease. This is a relatively new approach to looking at immunity called the danger theory in which the body is really reacting to disruption of its tissues and the immune system is there to repair and compensate for the injury and it just, from this point of view, it just happens that the infectious agent gets in the way of that repair process and it's incidental really to what the immune system is doing. So they could just be injecting mercury and aluminum and other immune system irritants and get the same effect? Yes, to a great extent, but one of the interesting things that Suzanne Humphreys mentions is that in one study in which they used an actual placebo control rather than a different vaccine, so they saw the difference between injecting just water or the vaccine. They didn't see any difference in the specific infection rate to the disease that the vaccine was aimed at, but they saw six or seven times greater....incidents of other infections in the vaccinated kids. Well, there's a lot of organizations that are now saying that vaccinated children are less healthy than unvaccinated children. And it's very hard to do a study like this because there's so many children that are vaccinated and not very many children that are unvaccinated. Yeah, and there's not likely to be any funding to do that kind of study. Okay, and the whole, from a perspective of good health, or from a perspective of practicing medicine and the Hippocratic Oath, that statement, first, do no harm, I think, continually sounds in my ear. And the definite and litigated damages claims that are being pursued in the courts against damaged children from drug companies is rather obvious. For anybody who wants to take a look at it there's plenty of groups that have emerged as parents of damaged children etc campaigning for better access to litigation because in fact all of the companies that produce vaccines folks are indemnified by the government against any and all damage arising out of the use of vaccines. So how does that sound to you? First, do no harm but you can produce a product and as and when it damages somebody you cannot be held liable for it. That sounds like a very serious contravention of the American constitution in terms of the population and its right and access to everything that is good and to be protected from those things that are not good and or fast becoming massive control of both food and the drug industry in this country and in most economized world. populations. So yeah, first do no harm, it's obvious that vaccines have caused harm, the companies are indemnified against all and every claim, so they unfortunately don't have too many places to go to get any kind of recourse for what's happened. Okay, you're listening to Ask Your Herb Doctor on KMED Garbleville 91.1 FM from the 7.30 or that period of time onwards to eight o'clock at the close of the show. You're invited to call in with any questions related to this month's subject of the recent Senate Bill 277 passing legislation for mandatory vaccination and then also we're going to get into the whole aspect of food and the degradation of food and the food chain and specifically starches and how these degraded foods wind up in most people's foods and how labeling laws do not reflect the dangers of the ingredients and how these ingredients can in turn. bring poor health without without doubt and obesity etc etc and how this all works against people so but the poor food in our food chain is supporting the vaccines the vaccine companies because people are not well enough to resist disease so dr pete do you think that unvaccinated unvaccinated children are at risk of socializing with vaccinated children There are cases in which a vaccinated child has spread the vaccine organism or they used a live polio virus and the vaccinated kid has infected unvaccinated people um but the um the senators proposing or getting that bill passed were claiming that the unvaccinated children are putting everyone at risk he said but if if most of the kids are vaccinated aren't they protected what are they going to catch the reasoning just seems absolutely crazy you can't put them at risk if they're protected but so apparently the senator didn't believe that the vaccines are protecting anyone How would they be at risk? You Okay, I just wanted to remind people again, if you're, hopefully you're interested, the website which you can find out a lot more information about the senators who are primarily behind this Bill 277 and where they get their funding from is plain to see and it's certainly disclosed by Merck where they fund people's campaigns and the senators who are funded by Merck. and without saying any names folks just go take a look at the uh the uh their website www.sb-277.us rather and you'll find all the information there and it's uh pretty straightforward pretty obvious and uh pretty shocking but hey um unfortunately a lot of people have their have their interests elsewhere but that's uh i think in this area and there's certainly people are a lot more conscious there's lots more information online. You can visit the National Vaccine Information Center which is www.nvic.org. So nvic.org and also there's doctors that are behind the real science of the dangers of vaccine which one of them is Dr. Sherry Tinpenny and her website is www.drtinpenny.com. 10 is in the number 10. And there's also a movie called The Greater Good and that's www.greatergoodmovie.org. So there's more information for people who want to read some more. Okay, well Dr. Pete, let's make the link between degraded food and ill health, declining health, etc. etc. and how a lot of this can tie in with the... The option to just make it simple and vaccinate everybody because out of that first study that we first talked about, that was the conclusion that was drawn. So inexpensive, low quality food then, the appearance is pretty deceptive when you see it. These real shiny, shiny apples that just look too good to be true with wax coatings and genetically engineered, of course, to not spoil on the shelf for a long time. And people out here listen to this. Do you read label ingredients of your food? Or don't you really mind? Don't you care? I know in England, before I came here in 2001, probably for 15 years at least, there was fully disclosed supplement fact labels on every package, everything that you would buy in a supermarket. You could see exactly what ingredients were in it. They would say if they had artificial colours or flavours or this, that or the other. And when I first came here... I really didn't see any labels and I didn't ever come across people looking at packaged food and or food on the shelf and taking a look at the label to see if there's information that they might be concerned about. But it's estimated that starch provides about 70 to 80 percent of the calories consumed by humans worldwide. So we can get into the description of starch here in a moment, Dr. P. But why is it? I mean I know it's cheap and it's easy to mass cultivate and now it's patentable in the form of GMO. Corn and potato and rice especially. So how do we make that connection? I think the cheapness is the main factor. Even dieticians are taught to promote a certain amount of starch in the diet. Starting in the 1930s the US government designed and taught dieticians to promote three levels of nutrition. One, two......simply prevents starvation, emphasizing beans and cereals, another middle-class, more health-oriented diet, and then the rich person's diet with plenty of animal protein. And that emphasis, originally, it was relatively meaningful, valuable to......hungry people to know how to get by on a diet of just a few cents a day for beans and grains, balancing things, for minimal survival purposes, but for economic reasons, like the breakfast cereal industry, subsidized nutrition journals and diabetics journals....and taught dieticians to say that these things are healthful, the foods that were originally promoted just to survive, now they're called health foods, whole cereals, legumes, and so on. So it's gone full circle. Yeah, so the rich people now are indoctrinated so that they're eating......whole grain bread and so on. Okay, all right. Well, let's get getting on to starch. I have something that really caught my attention when you first talked about it back in... Oh gosh, you know what? It was the middle of last year sometime, but you mentioned some pioneering work done by... Gerhard Volkheimer. Right, and starches. Would you describe that? Um, yeah, he was... he rediscovered....work that had been done 70 or 80 years earlier, and it's called per-absorption of particles. And it refers to the fact that even though ordinary digestion theory says that even proteins are broken down in the intestine and absorbed as small molecule particles of amino acids... He and his predecessors showed that if you feed starch consisting of the naturally formed starch grains which can range from half the diameter of a red blood cell to about ten times the diameter of a red blood cell, in other words, much, much too big to even pass through the smallest arterioles... Definitely, a lot of them will plug up capillaries and many of them block arterioles. He demonstrated both with people and with mice that feeding starch like a cup of a slurry of corn starch, for example, and then drawing blood about 15 minutes later he could find... the type of starch particles that they had drunk in the bloodstream. And then 15 minutes later he would start finding it in other body compartments. It would show up in the urine passing through the kidney barrier. And ultimately he found it was in the cerebrospinal fluid. And every compartment of the body he could find these starch grains plugging... arteries with experimental animals. He would slice them up at different stages, having been fed starch chronically. And he found that it caused mice to age prematurely. And when he sliced them up, he found that every place that one of these starch grains lodged in an arterial or capillary... The surrounding cells would be starved of nutrients and would die, so that these animals, it was like having a shotgun working internally, killing little pockets of cells. And he was an immunologist. That was what got him interested in it, thinking about how your food can affect the immune system if it's... broken down into small particles before it gets into the body, the immune system simply isn't going to see anything allergenic. But if these big particles get into the bloodstream, they're going to come in contact with all the parts of the immune system. And so the simple fact that big particles are in the body means that our immune system is constantly... being exposed to antigens, and he demonstrated that the circulatory damage was very clear. But as an immunologist, he believed that those particles were contributing to diseases that corresponded to the type of antigen in the food. So the foods we should......avoid that contain high starch granules, or high starch percent, would be grains and... Yeah, any starchy food. And if the starch is very, very well cooked, like boiling it for 40 to 60 minutes and then eating it with fat, the fat slows down the absorption and allows the digestive enzymes to soften it up....so that it doesn't get through the barrier of the intestine without being further broken down. Presumably, most people's intestines, for want of a better word, would be inflamed from poor diets, from poor food, dietary insults, we'll call them, and in that case then they are probably more... at risk and more subject to that passage of starch granules through the intestinal barrier, what would normally be a barrier, or perceived to be a barrier, but... Yeah, and that inflammation, besides weakening the barrier function, that is increased by the immune reactions. Increase the production of inflammatory materials and it becomes a vicious circle. Two nutrients that are very important in stopping that vicious circle are magnesium and vitamin A. And both of those are dependent on having adequate protein in the diet. Okay so fats, fats taken with starches and I think you have mentioned this before that does ring a bell with me anyway you said that fats when mixed with starches slowly absorption and or passage if you like of these starch granules through into the bloodstream and that's why you advocate plenty of butter with potatoes for example. Yeah and the having the digestive... enzymes being produced abundantly that requires a total good nutrition, good thyroid function and so on. Yeah because if you have low thyroid function then don't you have low hydrochloric acid and it's hard for you to start breaking down the food? All of the little glands in the digestive system slow down, don't produce as many enzymes. And your liver won't produce the same amount of bile and... Well, and also, you know, soaking of grains and, you know, in Mexico they are, you know, for thousands of years, corn has been... Yeah, even in my parents' and grandparents' generation, the way bread was made was completely different. And letting it rise for eight or ten hours, wetting the dough, adding sugar, letting the yeast grow...... The slow leavening process of using wheat or other grains activated enzymes that broke down the starches, turned them to sugar, let the yeast grow, and activated enzymes that broke down the gluten, and the combination of the carbohydrate, the sugar as energy, and the amino acids liberated from breaking down the gluten......produce new proteins so that the slow leavening actually can increase the protein by 100 or 200 percent. And the same with the corn because it increases the absorption of the nutrients when corn is mixed with, boiled with lime. Yeah, it decreases toxins and increases the nutrients. So it's modern day food that's killing us. Yeah, the grain... People thousands of years ago discovered that both the slow leavening and boiling the grains with lye or lime would break down the toxins and make them more nutritious. It's just since about 1940 when the bread industry discovered that they could make instant bread by adding chemicals to blow it up. Okay, you're listening to Ask Europe, Dr. Ankemy de Galverville, 91.1 FM. And then from now until the end of the show at eight o'clock you're invited to call in with any questions either related to the SB 277, which is now looking like it could become law, unless it's opposed, and or the discussion here about starches and the degradation of the food chain. We'll get into the... some of the components that are added to foods that people may just not even be aware of. Okay, so the number here if you live in the area is 1-800-KMUD-RAD or if you live outside the area there's this whole free number which is 1-800-568-3723. So the local number is 923-3911. Yeah, okay. All right, so Dr. P, some of the some of the ingredients that are not listed... I know we are probably going to be looking quite a bit at the starches because there's something that you talked about quite a bit and I know that you're not particularly an advocate of starch, although you do recommend things like tortillas as a good alternative when they've been made with lye to make them far more digestible. You're not totally opposed to sourdough bread either, are you? No, it's very safe compared to the standard bread. Okay, so not only have we talked about GMO and one of the three main GMO products that are certainly flooding the food chain here are potatoes, corn, and then I know there's some rice to some extent is becoming GMO, and then potatoes. I heard some potatoes also have now been grown fairly widely as a genetically modified product. Well, when I was visiting a food safety scientist at the USDA labs in Berkeley, he told me that they were, we went into the actual little lab kitchen to pick something up out of the freezer and they told me that they were working on adding a new fiber to breads and Dow Chemical was paying the USDA to test the food safety of adding this wood pulp. sawdust into the bread. It was not a grain fiber. It was from wood. It was a wood pulp and they were making bread with wood pulp and they were going to advertise it as increased fiber. Bread has increased fiber. I think the Germans discovered that method during a famine. They extended, at least they gave it to their war prisoners. And when they almost entirely omitted the cereal and made the bread of sawdust, the purpose was to kill off the war prisoners faster. Okay, we have a caller on the air, so let's take this first caller. Caller, you're on the air, where are you from? I have laryngitis. When some antibiotic that you tried didn't work on an ear infection at four years old, and possibly they never gave that... immunization out as a regular basis, at least I wasn't even aware of it until my child contracted spinal meningitis, and I believe that is a dangerous disease. Yeah, well thank God for antibiotics when your child gets spinal meningitis. Yes, but also not thank God for the parents that I've known who've had children vaccinated for pertussis and ended up permanently paralyzed. You might want to read the book, The Poisoned Needle....and investigate a little bit deeper into the subject. Also, one of the polio vaccines that I have heard about, there were two forms of them, and one of them can be quite dangerous, as well as the pertussis. Now, I am a believer in tetanus vaccination, especially here in the hills, and that isn't actually caused by rust, it's caused by horse manure. We're trying not to get into too much specifics because we don't have time on this show, so... Thank you for your call. Okay, alright, if you live in the area, the code, the number's 923-2513 or 1-800-KME-D-RAD. If you're outside the area, the toll-free number's 1-800-568-3723, which is KME-D-RAD. Okay, I think you have another, yeah, we have another caller on the air. Where are you from, caller? Uh, Missouri. Oh, hey, how you doing? Good, how are you? Oh, pretty good, carry on. Uh, so, you know, I... I guess one thing I wanted to find out is on starches, Dr. Pete, is there any differences from, say, like the starch in white rice and the starch in potato and any other starches that come to mind? And then the other thing I was wondering, I know you've commented several times that potatoes have a really high-quality protein. I think I've even heard you say that it's actually maybe even better than eggs. Um... And I'm wondering, eating something like potatoes that are well cooked with butter or coconut oil or even some kind of meat, you know, like a ruminant, versus eating white rice or even whole rice or whole wheat bread, does the body, because it's gearing up to digest protein......possibly secrete more enzymes that would be effective in breaking down those starch molecules in the potato? I guess I'm trying to defend the potato in my own mind to a certain degree, because I've really enjoyed cooking them many ways, such as, you know, hash browns cooked in coconut oil and then putting it out of the broiler and kind of browning them, and then putting eggs on top and putting it back in the broiler. And I just love these different foods with potatoes. I also grow potatoes. I realize... That the philosophy or the you know a lot of people will say well people have been eating potatoes for thousands of years or the study They've been eating bread for thousands years. I realize it may be all they had and that's why they're eating it, but So you're asking are you asking if eating protein with the potato is going to increase the enzymes to digest the starch in the potato? Yeah, just to make it a little less precarious You know kind of gearing everything up rather than just eating something like white rice which doesn't have protein in it. Norman Curie wrote a good book many years ago on the quality of plant proteins and he rated rice I think as six percent value for an egg yolk was a hundred percent value and leaf protein if it's extracted from the the fiber and the fats leaf protein is about 70 percent value on his scale where the protein in potato I think was about 105 percent slightly better than egg yolk in quality so it's roughly 15 or 20 times better than than rice or a bean protein by Puri's scale and the starch grain in potato is one of the biggest it's about a hundred microns in diameter. Rice starch grains I think are down around ten microns in diameter. So Dr. Pate do you think that eating a protein with your potato would increase the enzymatic digestion of the starch? Well if the protein if the potato is very well cooked it has such high quality protein that people subsist very well on a pure potato diet basically. In New Guinea some of the people on the traditional diet would eat basically just potatoes for 50 weeks out of the year. Then for one or two weeks they would have a regional feast, for several days they would eat pork just one or two weeks out of the year. But because of that very high potato diet for 50 weeks of the year, they were studied in detail and found to be well muscled. Generally very healthy as if they had been eating a perfectly balanced diet all year. And that was what got people interested in the high quality of potato protein. It'd be interesting to know if people that are eating a food like that over a long period of time, if they've kind of developed different strategies like, you know, really chewing it well and making sure that they're breaking the starch down somehow or they've either adapted. Maybe to, I don't know, is that possible for a stomach to secrete specific types of enzymes that are breaking down starch molecules better because generation after generation they're eating that type of food, I wonder? Yeah, just in a few months a person's digestive system will adapt considerably. In animal experiments, if they feed a highly nutritious diet, the size... The length and the weight of the intestine is very small. If they eat a very poor, high starch diet, high fiber, the intestine grows in length and mass. So it's almost like they're producing an organ specifically for the type of food they're eating. And a good way to get the protein out of the... I know we have a caller, but a good way to get the protein out of the potato is to juice it. Dr. Pitt, you've taught me that, and you juice a raw potato and then you let the starch granules fall to the bottom of the liquid and then you strain, or you just pour off the clear liquid and don't use the starch at the bottom. It stinks. It's almost like a corn starch you see sunk to the bottom of the cup, and then you can cook that very, very slowly in a double boiler with butter or just very slowly, and it's like, it is like scrambled eggs, and so for a vegetarian, right, high-quality protein, that's a great a great thing to do. I actually made a soup last week where I juiced potatoes and then put that just in a pan and got it boiling, and then I put in bamboo shoots and shiitake mushrooms, and man was it good. Okay, we better get this next caller. Thanks for your call, and let's take this next caller. Hello, you're on the air, where you from? North Carolina. Yeah, what's your question? Is there a way to process or cook beans like......maybe with an alkali to transmute the negative effects of the starch? To cook what was the... To cook beans. Legumes. Legumes, yeah. Well, you can find information on mixtamalizing even beans. I've never tried it, but... So that's processing, boiling the beans with a lye or lime? Yeah. Oh. So it would work with the beans as well as with the corn? That's what some people are saying on the internet. Would it negate the phytates that are present in the beans? I think it does liberate the minerals, at least, from the phytic acid. And are they saying that they're not thyroid-suppressive as a result of that? Well, it still probably has the... No, I don't know that. Well, soaking beans is a... you know, a very traditional way to repair them. Soaking for three days, you're activating a lot of enzymes that help break down the toxins. That increases the protein value, too, greatly. So anyone who eats beans should soak them for three days, rinsing the water. Yeah, as they approach sprouting, the storage protein turns to growth protein, which is less toxic and more nutritious. Okay. Okay. All right. Well, thank you. Thank you for your call. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Okay. So getting back to the starches in, just in case anybody else is listening and they want to call in, it's 1-800-KMUD-RAD is this whole free number, all the local areas, 923-2513. No, 923-3911. 3911. What am I saying? Okay. Too excited. Oh, you're reading the other number. Dr. P, okay, so we're talking about starches and it's not being particularly healthy, unless in some of the instances that we've covered, you can make them more digestible and more manageable for your gut to process them. But just so people understand how big an industry the whole starch industry is, especially with the GMO patentable own the seed type of approach to mass-producing starch folks. And that's what the majority of children eat and crave, is starches, so no wonder they need the vaccines. And if you looked at your packaging and your labeling, you would see all these different numbers would be on there, and there are things like acid-treated starch, alkaline-treated, bleach starch, oxidized starch, monostarch, dye starch, phosphated starch, acetylated, hydroxy-propylized, the list goes on and on, it's huge. And most of what we're talking about here... is not healthy and it's not, I know it would not pass any kind of scientific rigor for the true definition of good healthy food and that's just the beginning that's the tip of the iceberg there is actually a grain processing corporation folks okay it's called the grain processing corporation if you'd like to look it up online they produce things like b700 pure corn starch oxidized starch stabilized starch binding coating starch and the list goes on there too and it's all about putting this into the food the food stream and it's in most of the foods that you will have previously never had these things in anyway we have another caller on the air to take this next call call away from yes good evening hi I'm a question about potatoes does it matter which kind because I heard that the tribes that eat them eat yams but I wasn't I thought that was a South American tribe is there one I like Yukon Gold's particularly and I know the russets are real popular but are they as nutritious? Dr. Peay, I don't know if his preference... Each variety of potato varies in the quantity of starch relative to protein but the whole family has high quality protein and it's just the digestibility that is the main difference. The high carotene content can make them hard to digest for some people. That's what we would call a waxy potato, one that doesn't... start falling apart in the pan as easily, right, Dr. Beat? Yeah, and the yellow color is carotene. And when the skins turn green, isn't that a toxin? Yes. Yeah, nightshade? A solanine. Poisonous. Yeah, it's bitter. If the FDA had that come into... It was just discovered right now, potatoes would be outlawed... A ban....in case they turn green. How bad is it for you? Because it tastes terrible. A solanine, yeah, it's pretty toxic. They peel potatoes, but I like to eat the peels unless they're, you know, green. Well, if your potato is non-organic, you need to stay away from the peels because they put so many chemicals on non-organic potatoes. That is why I like that other gentleman. I'm planning on growing my own this year. And of course, when you genetically modify potatoes, you can drench them in pesticides and herbicides. That's the whole point of... Oh, yeah. Yeah. Anyway, it gets worse and worse. Okay, so there is another caller on the air. Thank you. Thank you for your call. Bye. And let's see here. Caller, you're on the air and where are you from? Hello, you're on the air. Where are you from? From Honeydew. Oh, Honeydew. Hi. What's your question? I'd like to know, isn't too much starch cause acid in the stomach? And what would prevent too much acid? Dr. Pete, so acid production by... The main function of acid in the stomach is digesting proteins. And it is responsive. to the type of food you eat. And so the starch doesn't necessarily stimulate acid production, but it might be irritating to the stomach in some other ways, like the quality of the starch. If it's hard to digest, it's likely to be more irritating. And if it's so hard to digest, it passes along your intestine without breaking down. significantly. Then it can support bacterial growth or fungal growth that can cause digestive problems. So high acid, I mean, high protein is hard. Would it make it less accessible for the acid? Just high protein? Usually the stomach can judge how much acid to secrete in the proportion to the amount of protein that it senses okay thank you dr pete i enjoy your show thank you for your call thank you for your call okay so dr pete can i uh ask you uh a little bit about um xanthan and carrageenan gums i know we have covered them in the past um i know you're opposed to them um in the 1940s uh the food industry was wanting to add various gums locust bean carob bean gum arabic and the fda looked at some of the evidence in animal studies and said they weren't appropriate to use in foods but 40 or 50 years later the industry had more power over the fda and so now they're using not just the natural guns which are more expensive but they're finding ways to make synthetic guns with those chemical processes you mentioned which are much cheaper than gum arabic or any of the the beanie derived gums i was trying to tell this to someone who said that they don't like to eat dairy when they have a cold because they think it increases their mucus production and i told them that i'm sure it's the additives in the dairy that are irritating your intestine and they said they buy good brands but so many organic brands have these gums in them yeah, i think they're gradually getting away from carrageenan which is a very powerful allergen and inflammation promoter and this is because of the literature against it, right? the evidence is just tremendous, it degrades under the influence of bacteria in the intestine and degraded carotene is generally widely recognized as a carcinogen. Well it's found in organic whipping cream. Yeah. I won't mention the brand. The industry to promote these manufactured cheap artificial gums to use in food processing, extending shelf life, reducing the need for nutrients in the food. The industry has promoted the idea that resistant starches are health foods that by feeding bacteria, which break them down and produce some short molecules such as butyric acid and lactic acid, that this will......supposedly prevent bowel cancer, but in fact it's causing changes in your brain and general nervous system to absorb these broken down products of the resistant starches. What is the name of that scientist who's a hundred years old and looks really great and young and he eats eggs? Fruits? Yes, egg, fruits, his diet consists primarily of eggs, fruits, vegetables, meat, and dairy. Just a traditional diet. Yeah, exactly. Just a traditional, old-fashioned diet of just real, pure food. Let me quickly mention the whole thing about low-fat and not just yogurt, but low-fat in general. I think the whole thing about low-fat is I'm sure there's probably... a marketing ploy for companies to profit from yet again another erroneous piece of science to produce chemicals that actually make the low-fat sim not low-fat so it's more palatable by the consumer who's being told that fat is bad for you that they produce modified starches for low-fat and micro-particulated whey proteins modified tapioca starch and several other compounds which Certainly very questionable as a food compounds because you probably never normally Eat these in the same quantities and that's all on the back of fat being bad for you Which we we know saturated fat is not bad for you So the whole point about the dairy is that dairy does contain saturated fat, but it's not a bad thing. It's the liquid oils I don't know actually if there is another caller on there and I see the engineer talking to someone but I know we're getting pretty close but um so our word of advice for our listeners is Read your label your labels eat organic foods as much as possible and spend your money on good quality food It's far far the cheapest way to live and then Okay, dr pete, what do you think of uh lesser thin do you have any uh, When it comes from Eggs produced by well-fed chickens Yeah, it's okay, but and now it all comes from soybeans. Soybeans are a highly unsaturated fat and so it's simply a way of getting too much poofa into your system if you eat very much less of them. But if it's just a trace of it, like to emulsify a chocolate bar or something, that small amount is harmless. All right. Well, I know it's about five minutes to eight now, and I want to make sure that people do get some details about you that they can go check you out on the internet and a lot of your work and read more about you. So thanks so much for joining us again this evening. OK, thank you. OK, so just to quickly wrap up some of the other ingredients in food that people are probably not even aware of. Things like phosphates and aluminum phosphate in particular, sodium aluminum sulfate, are used as stabilizers in this. Obviously the artificial colors, things like propyl gallate and butylated hydroxy toluene, propyl paraben for keeping tortillas, muffins, and those kind of products fluffy, and food dyes, not to mention the food dyes that get put in, and then things like potassium bromate, used to strengthen bread and cracker dough and help it rise. I mean crying out loud, what's what's wrong with just good good old-fashioned food? It's almost too too simple. And I think that's what actually happens with time and life in time is that the simple things just suddenly seem to be unbelievable because they're too simple and Unfortunately technology wants to cover our eyes with the wool of its science which is not rooted in real science, but is rooted in pseudoscience supported by big industry and It's very much what we've said before in keeping with dr. Pete recommending very simple diet of good quality foods that you are what you eat um so for those people that have um listened to the show and have enjoyed it and or want to know more about dr pete uh his website is www.raypete.com he's got plenty of articles there uh they're all you can download them print them out share them etc they're all fully referenced and um he's been doing this for at least 45 years now so he's extremely intelligent and he knows what he's talking about and he's done a lot of research on it and you can find the references that he gives you can find all these people on the internet who unfortunately are just shining their tiny little light in the darkness here but fortunately they are visible if you look for them so I'd encourage people to go to his website read the articles hear what he has to say it's good old-fashioned wisdom that's free well he's a genius of the highest order he certainly is okay and uh for those people that have called in thanks so much for your calls and uh we'll do this again uh next month on june the third friday of the month and if you need to contact us our telephone number is 707-986-9506 or toll free 1888 wbm herb herb okay all right so thanks so much for joining us folks um we do appreciate you calling in and thanks so much KMED Garberville for uh hosting us and allowing this free speech which is what America's all about isn't it if it's uh There's anything wrong with it people will find it out and uh, you've got to have access to free speech because the truth will shine out And anything that's inherently bad or evil will be discovered and uh, the truth is there for people that have ears So let them let them hear Good night So let them let them hear Good night All right. What a good show. 7.59 in the PM. You got to tune in to KMUD, Gerberville 91.1 FM, KMUE, Eureka 88.1 FM, KLAI, Laytonville 90.3 FM, Shelter Cove at 99.5, and all y'all at kmud.org. Support for KMUD comes from the end of the Lost Coast in Shelter Cove with fireplace, spa, and sauna suites overlooking the ocean and views of the migrating California gray whales. Fishtank Expresso. And Delgada Pizza and Bakery are open daily. More information available at 986-7521 or online at inofthelostcoast.com. Also support for KMUG comes from SolarWinds Northern Lights Inc.