 Well once again welcome to this month's Ask Your Herb Doctor. My name is Andrew Murray. It's April 19th 2019 and this is Ask Your Herb Doctor. KMUD Garble 91.1 FM proudly hosts this free speech independent radio program that we do the third Friday of every month and from 6.30 until seven o'clock callers are invited to call with questions. Either related to this month's continuing topic of antiviral herbs and we're going to break into nanoparticles and their health effects, negative health effects and also looking a little more at some other articles surrounding polyunsaturated fats and cancer incidents so that'll be something we'll bring out here. The tide is slowly changing and slowly turning and as dr pete has said and has been famously quoted in the past a lie gets around the world quicker than truth can tie up her shoelaces uh so once again uh we're very welcome to have dr pete join us on the radio show live you there dr pete yes thanks so much for joining us um i just first wanted to start a very brief uh introduction into some of the some of the things that uh we're going to cover again this evening which is a kind of follow-up from the last couple of months that we haven't finished but I went well to a great length on it the antiviral activity of selected medicinal plants for which there are plenty of articles if you look at PubMed for example you can type in the Latin name of a plant and type in antiviral activity and you can get a host of search results that will come back with clinical trials that have been done on that plant. for that known virus whether it's herpes or you know hepatitis or whatever. So whilst we know that the source of this information may not be fully accurate as is always the case with everything PubMed is one of those places that does supposedly publish you know reviewed articles and like ResearchGate and other affiliates is at this point I think probably one of the only real avenues that we have to look. for the results that we hope are not skewed and tell the facts like they are. I know I've interviewed Dr Pete and many times he's quoted supposedly scientific research articles that are nothing of the sort and has pointed out blatant errors in the research and has put the record straight. I think before anyway before I carry on I would like to get you Dr Pete just to introduce yourself to people who maybe haven't heard of you before though I think your fame is spreading around the world. But if you just outline your academic and professional background for people that have maybe not heard of you before and also like I've said you know all of these programs will be on an Instagram page and we'll be doing a fairly intensive Ray Pete based. ideology Instagram page for people to find all of the information that you've been talking about rather than recapitulated from various websites that are purporting to be Dr Pete friendly some of which are suggesting things that I know you wouldn't suggest so just for people listening tonight it's April 2019 here now and hopefully in the next two months or so we'll have an opening Instagram page and we're going to chronologically as well as by subject matter, list it in a logical sequence for people to educate themselves from the very beginning of your work, Dr. Peake, which was on polyunsaturates and thyroid and hormones. But anyway, enough of me, would you just introduce yourself? Between 1968 and 72, I studied biology, emphasizing physiology, especially reproductive physiology, at the University of Oregon. But I didn't start academic study of biology until I had about 20 years of investigating controversies in biology and having decided that academic biology, especially in the U.S., was too dogmatic and commercial to really be scientific. I finally decided to go through the academic process and find out some of its weaknesses in the process. After getting a Ph.D., I just continued my independent studying, doing nutrition counseling, hormone counseling, and studying how the brain reproduces. And immune systems in particular interact with the environment, especially nutrition. You've been a big proponent for a long time now of getting people to stop using polyunsaturates, quoting Burr and other people who had previously studied this and were supporting it in the mid-30s or 40s, and from there on. And you've always mentioned the fact that the paint industry was a big user of these vegetable oils, and that when the petroleum industry came into being, synthetic additives and paints were then manufactured from petroleum and put the seed oil producers at risk, and so they decided to put these seed oils into the food chain. And for a long, long time now, you know, as I grew up in the 70s, the polyunsaturates and the sunflower oil and everything else was... margarine, you know, was just advertised everywhere as the health, heart, heart healthy, you know, wonder, wonder oil and the things that our forebears had used, very natural products like saturated fat from beef, these kind of things, animal fats and animal products even, largely. A big study in veterans... of the heart healthy diet with margarine found that it not only caused more cancer but also increased deaths from heart disease and that was a turning point against the original essential fatty acids and that set the background for fish oil to come on the market. This is not the order I was going to ask you some questions related to things from antiviral components in medicinal herbs that you probably have read about and you would understand and be able to elucidate somewhat from your perspective of how they work especially those we've talked about in the past the dark pigments the anthocyanin pigments that you have described as being radical quenching because they have the ability to mop up. Electrons and suppress inflammation and that kind of thing, but let me just um, I didn't I didn't send any of this to you but I read this article it just came out of the blue as I was looking at articles to support a Negative detrimental effect from polyunsaturates because gosh you type in polyunsaturates and all you find is how good they are How healthy they are, how cardiovascular friendly they are. How you can't live without them and how you'd be crazy not to use them. So there's a strength pushed in the industry weighed on the pro polyunsaturate side that it's very difficult to find evidence for the opposite. But I came across this article and it's entitled are diets high in omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids unhealthy? And this came out of work that was done. At the University Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem, and it said that just I want to quote a small paragraph from it And then we'll carry on In the order that I think we were going to do this subject in with antivirals and then move on to nanotechnology as an emerging Potential problem, but anyway, it said that in the introduction and I am quoting the introduction here. So people that might even come across this article. Yeah, it's plagiarism in some ways, but I just want to directly quote the article. It said Israel has one of the highest dietary polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratios in the world. The population consumes some 8% more omega-6 PUFAs than in the USA and some 10 to 12% more than in most European countries. Israeli Jews may be regarded as a population-based dietary experiment of the effect of a high omega-6 PUFA diet on disease. One of which until recently was widely recommended. Despite such national habits, paradoxically there is a high prevalence of cardiovascular diseases from hypertension, non insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and obesity, all diseases which are associated with hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance and grouped together as the insulin resistance syndrome or syndrome X. There is also an increased cancer incidence and mortality rate especially in women. In comparison with western countries studies suggest that high linoleic acid consumption might aggravate hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance as well as being a substrate for lipid peroxidation and free radical formation which I know you've mentioned extensively. Thus far from being beneficial high omega-6 pufer diets may have some serious long-term effects acting as the link between hyperinsulinemia atherosclerosis and carcinogenesis. So what do you think of that article? Very good. So you've got to search I don't know I don't know if it's had any bearing on the search results folks and I don't want you to interpret what I'm going to say as just the way that's evidence of it but I was using a start page as my browser and increasingly going off google which I think obviously has become de facto for a lot of people just because it's so ubiquitous but I truly believe and this is my own personal opinion that Google are streamlining results based on search terms that suit their agenda folks. A couple of the sociologists recently did a study on a Google-like search engine and they slightly jiggered the frequency of particular names of political candidates. They thought they might be able to... rig the choice in an election by 2 or 3%. It turned out they were getting a 48% false result, just by which they favored with the search engine. Very horrifying about what Google could be doing. Absolutely, and this mirrors what I said very early on in the beginning of that, that you have to be careful where you get your results from because... even published medical data is skewed and it's abused and data is misinterpreted or downright corrected in favour of the results they're looking for. And so it is with the internet as well, I mean, as much as it is paradoxical that there's a wealth of information out there but you've really got to be careful with that, now I think the information increasingly so is becoming manipulated by the... main players in the world of the internet, you know, in terms of search engine results, and that's Google. Obviously there are other players, but Google is one of the biggest. And certainly becoming a bone to contend with in terms of being objective about where you're getting your information from without being on the fact checking side of paranoia, and there is definitely a weight of evidence to show that. A lot of the search terms are being manipulated in terms of algorithms that are produced by these companies to either show or hide results that you would normally find, but anyways the start page came up with this and it was at the end of the day and I didn't even have time Dr. Peake to put this into any kind of introduction for the show and the questions, but I thought that was quite interesting. I'll probably take a look at some start page search terms in terms of poofer and its negative effects, because like I said, you generally just find all the positive stuff. Okay, so you've talked about naringenin before several times in different contexts as anti-oxidant. Do you, and I don't know that you do, I'm just putting it out there that perhaps you've have a way of explaining naringenin's potential nd I'm just putting it out there that perhaps you've have a way of explaining naringenin's potential antiviral effects, because I know that there are quite a few studies that are showing naringenin as a preparation for herpes simplex virus, being fairly effective and not knowing as much perhaps as you do about naringenin and its activity. I wondered if you'd know anything that would support that? Oh yeah, I think it works the same way aspirin and progesterone and all of the cell stabilizers work. It increases the oxidative balance of the cell simply reinforcing the effect of the oxidative respiratory metabolism and that makes the cell able to resist improper excitation, stabilizes it against random irritation and just about anything that is a... unphysiological will destabilize the cell in the same direction, so these things protect against viruses, radiation, vibration, oxygen deprivation, sugar deprivation, too much of the polyunsaturated fats and too much phosphate, too little calcium, just anything that shifts the balance towards meaningless excitation or reducing proper energy production. Okay, so this is a cell stabilizing component, excuse me, which also has an antiviral effect because of its energy saving effect rather than allowing the cell to become excited and in an excited toxic way wasting energy and being unstable, unstable. Yeah, when the virus wants to replicate, it excites the cell, gets the cell churning its mechanism and that damages the organism, produces more viruses. Okay, so it's narangenin, that was that one, and mainly oranges and lemons, the peel, but I found actually there was a greater proportion of narangenin actually in the membrane. So this is that kind of white pithy membrane that you'll find either in between the segments of the fruit or just underneath the surface of the skin. So you're listening to Ask URIP, Dr. K. Meady Garberville, 91.1 FM. From 7.30 until the end of the show, 8 o'clock, you're invited to call in our guest speaker, Dr. Raymond Peat, covering a few antiviral herbs before we get into the subject of particulates, especially the nano. Particulates and nanotechnology. The number here is area code 707-923-3911. Okay then, I guess I'll very quickly just mention, because I don't see too much conclusive evidence here, but Hemidesmus, which was an Indian sarsaparilla. I saw a few articles there about its herpes simplex 1 and 2 activity, but then I wanted to mention pyomegranate. I think this is a fairly ancient fruit that's been mentioned since biblical times and an article that mentioned the effect of zinc in conjunction with pomegranate rind extract being eight times greater in its viricidal activity than an equivalent mass of just purely pomegranate extract. So I would understand the pomegranate again to being......fairly antioxidant, as I think that's the main reason it's juiced and sold as its potential health benefits. But from the point of view of the ion, zinc, I think it has been used, obviously used as a sun blocker, and I think zinc on its own has been touted as a healing agent for speeding up the healing process in cold sores. Do you have anything to say on zinc or what you've... heard or read before that would support any activity there? I think the protein synthesizing function of zinc is like vitamin A for accelerating healing. So the protein synthesizing effect and this would be why it's... would be used in the production of sperm. Yeah, interesting. Okay. All right. And then something that I'd have a kind of... personal relationship with, if you like, between this one and the next one, is birch bark extract. And I had an article that was published by the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Romania on betulin and betulinic acid were two ingredients that were used for this and had some pretty good results with it in treating. melanomas and colon and cervical cancer and this study seemed to show here that the double staining analysis that was conducted on the cells after they were treated measured the activity of the cell enzymes which were responsible for angiogenesis and this was the rationale by which the extract had a anti-cancer effect was that it directly interfered with angiogenesis and the creation of new blood vessels. Structurally, ethylenic acid is analogous to progesterone. And it's a triterpene, isn't it? Sarsaparilla, I think, has a similar steroid. Okay, yeah, they call it a pentacyclic triterpene. Interesting, okay. So they had this trial of an X amount of people. And they said that it was fairly significant, its effects, and so they were calling out birch bark as a good source of betulinic acid and production of betulin, and there was one other tree, another tree actually, was the red alder. And they said also that Native Americans use the bark of the red alder tree to treat a variety of inflammatory conditions from poison oak to other inflammatory skin conditions as well as TB.. Okay, so that's birch bark and I want to just to mention here briefly and I'm doing a kind of trial myself. I know when we spoke maybe two months ago about skin cancers, I had, actually it was the beginning of the year wasn't it, with Simoncini, the Italian doctor here who had, you know, a bunch of YouTube channels talking about iodine and his, his belief. and that there was a fungal origin of cancer or especially candida as an origin of cancers and that iodine's use was implicated in treating that because of its antifungal effect. So I got a product from Australia and in Australia there has been probably for about 20 years now a patented herb-based product for skin cancer and it works for both actinic keratosis which is a kind of precancerous, it's called a cancer but it's a precancerous lesion, then obviously the basal and squamous cell carcinoma and melanoma. So this particular plant is a solanaceous plant so belonging to the tomato family called solanum sodomatium. There are other solanums that do have. The sulacidine glycosides, aubergine is one of them, and I have a herbalist in England. He's about 82. I met his daughter while we were studying, she's like a second generation herbalist there. But anyway, he produces this cream he bases on both aubergine and birch bark. And we call aubergine eggplant. Eggplant, okay, there you go. So for those people that are listening, I'm talking about the eggplant. So anyway. But both the aubergine and this solanum sodomacium both contains solar margine and these are the glycosides that are attached, actually ramnose sugars that are attached to this solar margine and directly kill cancer cells specifically and leave normal cells intact. And so he's actually patented this, I think it was a biochemistry doctor. And 25 years ago he patented this product and it's been sold all over the world and you can go on the website and you can I think it's about 60 to 65 percent effective, it's not a hundred percent effective a hundred percent of the time. But there's quite a lot of anecdotal evidence there from people that have used it and they've got nothing but good things to say about it. So anyway, I wanted to mention that I had on my forearms from sun damage what I believe but again this is anecdotal from me I never had a... biopsy taken to tell me that it was cancerous or precancerous but definitely these raised irregular bordered pearly grey sinister looking skin lesions that I was just... And I used 7% iodine on them and the results from both of that are that after about 60 days they had totally gone. So it took about 60 days. But I've no visible sign of anything left there that was there previously and I'll keep an eye on it to see how it goes. But at the same time I purchased this uh curadone uh from Australia and I've been using that on what I have on the bridge of my nose which I've had probably for a couple of years uh has just stubbornly resisted any and everything I put on it uh but it's unequivocal at this point in time because the uh the results are still waiting. So Dr. P, in terms of cancers and skin cancers especially, I know it's a little bit of a touchy subject from a global warming perspective, you know, if the planet's heating up or if we're losing our ozone layer, but cancers are definitely on the rise and I think before we get into the rapid increase in cancer incidences and we have some facts and analysis from a few departments that have done studies on this, in terms of cancer, and skin cancer, do you have a way of defining it or a way that you would understand it outside of the regular kind of sunburn causing genetic changes type approach? For melanoma, sun really isn't the main factor. Most melanomas occur in areas that aren't... much exposed to the sun, back and inside of the thighs, even on the bottom of the feet. And it's a very hormone-sensitive thing. Estrogen has been suspected for a long time of being involved in it. I've seen dozens of apparent melanomas that disappeared. And a couple of people who... were diagnosed with terminal melanoma, a very advanced metastatic. It regressed when they changed their diet, used coffee, aspirin, and various nutritional things, vitamin D, a lot of orange juice and milk and such. Is this an anti-estrogenic type of approach? Yeah. So far, all of the melanoma people that I've talked to have had a really quick response from changing their diet. Interesting. Okay, have you come across many people yourself that have had either actinic keratosis or basal or squamous cell carcinomas that have been treated effectively without any medical intervention? Yeah, the first one I saw, a man about 80, 45 years ago, put progesterone on his diagnosed lip cancer and in a week or so it was gone. Interesting. Okay. Well, we're coming up to 7.30 here, so just to remind people again, this is Asciorept 91.1 KMUD. 91.1 FM and the number is 707-923-3911. I got your recent newsletter, Dr. P, and I have definitely wondered about it myself. It's like everything else, you know, whenever you tamper with nature, things usually don't go too well. Obviously, there are some cases where we......interfere with things and hopefully make them better. But nature does a pretty good job of selecting out the good from the bad. And I think we've gotten where we are because of its job doing that. So nanotechnology is a rapidly progressing science. A little bit like CRISPR gene editing. I think it's got the same kind of mystique and similar kind of fears surrounding it. It's found in many different products. It's not just something that builds nanotubules, for example, to promote ultra-light, strong structure, but it's put in skin creams, it's added to foods. I've got an article that I don't have to read at this point in time because I'd like to get your feedback on the whole nanotech industry and where you see it causing problems and what you think. Would be the right approach to its development and it's, you know, coming into being a part of our science and not getting away from us like a Pandora's box opening, but what's your opinion on nanotechnology, where it's come from and how fast it's moving? I'm not sure exactly where the industry came from. People have recognized that particles like soot spontaneously makes these highly structured, ultra-microscopic particles. And the industry... I think about 30 or 40 years after they recognized that these things were happening, they thought of things to do with them. About 35 years ago, I had some contact with the chemical industry, and without asking for it, they sent me two gallon-sized containers that weighed almost nothing. A sample of their products that they wanted to promote, I screwed the top off one of them and the material floated out like smoke. It was fumed silica, which is now being added to toothpaste and can be included in foods. It makes salad dressings seem more creamy. How long ago was this? Thirty-five years ago. Anyway, it worried me that the stuff floats right into the air. It's dangerous to be around. I closed it up and set it aside. I didn't know how to dispose of it in an ecologically safe way. The stuff can get into groundwater. Things of that sort are produced naturally by friction. Tires on the highway and smoke coming out of engines. Right, diesel engines. Yeah, so it's something being produced by ordinary processes of industry and social activities. But they're deliberately... manufacturing it in vast amounts and thinking of new ways to make clothing deodorant, antiseptic, control heat and moisture better, but these particles, even in clothes, the fine particles, if they contact sweaty skin, actually......can pass through the skin into the bloodstream in small amounts. Interesting. You mentioned soot. And that just reminds me of the chimney sweeps in the late 1800s in England. They would get testicular cancer. It was a well-known result. So that's funny that you mention that. I mean, soot is an ultrafine nanoparticle in its own right, huh? Yeah, and it contains... estrogenic, as well as carcinogenic chemicals, but the particles themselves, because of their shape and size... the reason asbestos is carcinogenic is its fine-pointed crystalline structure. And more or less spherical particles, if they're as small as the point of an asbestos crystal. The body interprets the, I think it's probably related to viral immune processes. It starts an inflammatory process when the particle has a certain fineness or length to diameter ratio. A small particle or a very small particle activates the inflammatory process, which excites. A whole system of the cell in the activity, which if you have the biological energy you can segregate, isolate and tamp down that excitation and recover, but when it becomes either too frequent, too intense, or your energy level decreases. The balance shifts towards inflammation, degeneration, a production of fibrous tissues rather than functional tissues. Hmm, interesting. I came across an article that was put out by the National University of Singapore and the phenomena, they called it nanomaterial induced endothelial leakiness or nano-L for short. They had recorded the fact that this nano-L process accelerated the movement of cancer cells from the primary tumour and also caused circulating cancer cells to escape from the circulatory system because these nano-particles created a gap physically within the endothelia large enough for cells to come in and out of, so thus evading what would normally be a......host immune response within the vasculature, they physically were able to leak out of these spaces and so that was one direct way in which nanoparticles had been implicated in causing cancer or......most of the places are talking about gaps between cells but that leakiness, it's really a basic thing that excess excitation or energy deficiency causes to happen. In all cells, the substance of the cell leaks out. In a hypothyroid person, for example, if you exercise the muscle too much, it leaks its enzymes right through the surface of the cell. And particles, relatively big particles on the scale of these nanomaterials, the cell emits its own nanoparticles.......right through the surface of the cell when it's stressed, the leakiness is an intrinsic property of the cytoplasm when it's under stress. But they talk about it in terms of gaps because they have a membrane barrier theory. It's mechanistic again, isn't it? I keep having to check myself, every time I talk to you, you come up with this, and it's... yep. Okay, the textbooks interpret this physiologically one way, because that's the way they want you to remember it, that's the way they want to teach it and propagate it, but that is a much more fluid, dynamic system that's in place rather than this rigid, mechanistic, you know, lock and key type approach that they've always stuck by. Just giving the cell glucose to get its energy up can stop that leakiness. And one of the interesting things about cancer, the tumors that instead of looking at what's inside the cancer cells, someone looked at what's outside of the cells in the tumor. They found there was a thousand times more ATP in the fluid of a tumor than in normal tissues. The cells are leaking and they're leaking their necessary materials so fast that they... are constantly in this over-simulated condition. This would be an energy-depleted state too, right? Yeah, yeah. They're losing their basic building block for energy production. Interesting. Okay, so you're listening to Ask Europe. Dr. Cammie D. Galbiville, 91.1 FM. From now until the end of the show, you're invited to call in. The number's 707-923-3911. And if we don't hear from you, which would be very unusual, I would just imagine that you're listening. Uh, anyway, so... Dr. Pete, um, in terms of, uh, an anti-inflammatory strategy for, for life, um, I know you've mentioned many substances which, um, many people that we've worked with, uh, have changed their diet and their lifestyle, um, but in terms of energy, it's really everything that you've touched on this evening in these different subjects is based on a energy-wasting perspective that causes cancer and that the, uh, the leakiness of a cell for example, uh, could be based on, uh, inflammatory mediators like estrogen and how energy wasteful, uh, estrogenic, an estrogenic environment is and this is quite probably why and I, I'm totally, I'm totally sold on the whole, um, thyroid thing because the the fundamental basis of human life is energy. We, we, everything is, everything in the universe is energy. I'm not damn being flippant or, you know, um, braggadocious or anything, but energy is the some basis of everything that we see, do and see, you know, it's so thyroid hormone and glucose strike me as the two biggest, um, fuels substances that promote energy because the whole process of ATP and muscular movement, for example, requires glucose spitting that, you know, to, to drive the whole Krebs cycle and produce energy. And so when the thyroid hormone is low or it's, it's compromised because of blocks to its production or uptake or, you know, synthesis, then naturally the organism is going to get weaker and there's going to come a point where you exceed the ability to. You know, to put up with that, and then you start getting into diseased states. So the engineer has got his finger up and he's got his finger up for a reason. Okay, we have a caller. Let's get this next caller on the air. Caller, where are you from? And what's your question? I'm from Redway. And my question is, would you please go over the information about the Australian herbal topical cream for acne keratosis once again? Yeah. Can it be obtained online? Yeah. Okay. Okay. So the product is called Curiderm. C-U-R-A-D-E-R-M. Curiderm. It's trademarked. It's patented. And yes, you can get it online. There's several different outlets. But the place that I did get it from, I was from Australia. But I think there's several European, you know, outlets for it. So that's what you want to type in and you'll find that information online. No problem. Thank you very much. Yeah, you're welcome. Okay, so we have another caller on the air. Caller, you're on the air. And where are you from? What's your question? Hello, I'm in Eureka. Eureka. Welcome to the show. I've got questions about Parkinson's. Okay. What is kind of a good direction to take go with that? Okay. Do you have a radio on in the background at all? No, I haven't. All right. It's just a little bit of feedback. Okay. So your main questions is Parkinson's and the best way forward with Parkinson's. Yeah. Yeah. So Dr. Pete Parkinson's, I know it's multifactorial and what they call Parkinson's now. I've also seen recent research showing that it's actually multifactorial, the neurofibrillary tangles and all the rest of the physiological findings sometimes. They're way before the symptoms and actually they're now wanting to break it down into five or six different causative organisms that could be responsible, but what's your view on Parkinson's? Keeping testosterone and related steroids up, the neuro steroids are very protective and testosterone has just been identified as one thing that goes down in relation to Parkinson's. The pregnenolone, progesterone, DHEA and testosterone are all nerve protective and restorative. Vitamin D is another steroid that is extremely protective to the nerve cells. What was that one last one you said? The vitamin D. I take vitamin D. How much should I take? And our phosphate should be reduced in the diet. Along with the pro-inflammatory fatty acids, so more carbohydrate and sugar and any good source of calcium and magnesium, milk, cheese, green vegetables, well-cooked, but less beans, nuts and meat because of their high phosphate content. So testosterone would be first and foremost in terms of what Dr. Peet said about its neuroprotective effects and for males very importantly and not so difficult to achieve. In terms of Dr. Peet's recommendations for lightweight bearing exercise would be the best way to improve your general testosterone as a male. Obviously avoiding the estrogenic substances is another no-brainer because estrogen directly antagonizes testosterone. And so to avoid all of the polyunsaturates in the diet obviously there's things from plastics interfering with hormones etc causing as you know xenoestrogenic effects. So the food that you eat you need to be careful nuts beans and seeds to avoid those from the polyunsaturate perspective and then to either use thyroid hormone if you are low thyroid and you can check that with your temperature impulses. And also things like aspirin are good anti-inflammatories for reducing generalised information. And fibrous foods because they help to reduce the reabsorption of estrogen in the intestine and because Parkinson's almost always involves sluggish intestinal movement. Constipation, yeah, there you go. Okay, so did you get that list? Yeah, it's in vitamin D, testosterone, DHEA, insulin. Thyroid hormone and making sure you're getting enough sugars in your diet, making sure your bowels are working, you know, you're not constipated, clearing up any constipation that you have because you can reabsorb estrogen from the bowel. So all of those pro-testosterone things, pro-energy things, and anti-estrogenic. And inflammatory mediated causative substances like the pufer, the polyunsaturates in the food chain, yeah. Okay, all right, well, if you need any other questions we've got at the end of the show, I'll give out the best way to contact myself and how to find Dr. Pete's articles, I'm sure. In fact, I know there are a couple of articles on Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and those kind of neurodegenerative processes that you could go ahead and read. That's a call, we have another call on the air, so let's take this call away from, what's your question? I'm dealing with peripheral neuropathy in my feet, caused by chemotherapy. And I'm wondering, you were talking about less estrogen-producing foods and more testosterone. Anyway, if you could... Save the list of things to avoid, or if there is a way to get that, I would be very grateful because it is an inflammation at an incredible level. It's very, very, very painful. And I've been taking some pain pills when I just can't stand... I can't stand taking the pills and I can't stand the pain. Anything you could do that might mitigate or suggest that might mitigate the inflammation would be great. Okay, so Dr. Pete, peripheral neuropathy post chemotherapy... Pete... The nerve regeneration of peripheral as well as central, there have been... Many studies in animals showing that vitamin D and progesterone work together to restore nerves. I think it's a good idea to have a blood test for both vitamin D and progesterone and keep the vitamin D at least in the middle of the normal range. Fifteen milligrams per milliliter is good, fifty or sixty, and progesterone should be... In the luteal range, even for postmenopausal women, it's good to supplement it if it isn't naturally detectable. And this is because it's directly opposing estrogen? Yeah, and the serum tests for estrogen are meaningful if you don't have a good amount of progesterone because the... after menopause. Estrogen begins forming inside cells all through the body, fat cells, skin cells, breast, uterine cells, everywhere that you don't want it, it can be formed from adrenal precursors and the anti-inflammatory things, aspirin, progesterone and thyroid, vitamin D, and the calcium in the diet all help to minimize that inflammatory process of spontaneously forming estrogen in the tissues. Okay, aspirin, vitamin D, progesterone, thyroid hormone, and calcium. I've taken that since I was in 9th grade. Which, thyroid hormone? Yes, and my thyroid... organ is it doesn't function are you taking synthroid or you taking I am taking yeah yeah I've talked to a lot of people who just get no benefit whatsoever from synthroid I think it's a very yeah what can they can test it in my blood yeah you can see all the good that does you can see it in your blood but you've got to convert it yourself to to active hormone which is sometimes a problem for people but I just found a lot of people who I've spoken with are very disappointed with any approach that Synthroid has taken them in and there are other alternatives. I know that Dr. Peet's mentioned alternatives to it and both the active form of T3 as well as... Where does that come from? Where do you get that? Well, typically you can go to your doctor and ask for a synthetic T3 if you are diagnosed hypothyroid. There shouldn't be any problem with that if you have an understanding doctor who despite whatever levels you would have on a blood test that would seem to show that you are treated and you have been treated and it seems to be within the range, if you still got clinical symptoms of hypothyroidism which are legion, you know, from dry skin, I got them. All of it, yeah, you probably know as much. My whole life. Yeah, exactly. The active thyroid hormone T3 is itself directly anti-inflammatory, but even the synchroid, it does have the good function of suppressing TSH, so if you are taking enough to keep your TSH close to zero, that has an anti-inflammatory effect, but the main anti-inflammatory action of thyroid is through the T3. I think my body has a problem with uptake. I think that's always been a problem for me. And I don't have any of the organs that produce estrogen. Avoiding polyunsaturated fat is very important because it blocks the activation of thyroid in the T3. I've never subscribed to that. I always thought butter was probably better. Also with the... I'm interested in the iodine. Okay. I mentioned earlier that a 7% iodine, I'd used it topically on two lesions on my forearms, and both of which, one took a significantly longer time than the other, but I'd had. The one that took significantly longer, I'd had it longer, I'd had it probably for the best part of three years and every summer I'd look at it and just be a little bit more concerned because it was just getting a little bigger and a little bit more scary and was very much activated by sunlight exposure, whereas the one on the other forearm I hadn't, I'd just seen it last year. So that one cleared up the quickest, that cleared up in about 35 days, 40 days, and the one on my other arm took about 65 days, I think it was, you know. And you just put iodine on it? Yeah, it's a 7% iodine, so you can get... Are you talking about the grey, kind of grainy... No, no, no, it's a liquid, it's... No, no, no, on your arm? Yeah, yeah, it was a raised kind of grey, white, pearly... I think I have one. Just suspicious. I'm on my way to Rite Aid. Uh-huh. And you said curaderm? Curaderm, yeah, curaderm... Does it end in an N or an M? No, it's an M. As in derm, your skin, your dermal layer, your dermatitis, your dermatology. I want to thank you very much, I will try these things. Yeah, and I'll give Dr. Pete's information at the end of the show and you can go ahead and read his articles which you'll find very interesting. This has been so informative, it's the first time I've heard anything even remotely. Well, there you go, Dr. Pete, you see that we've been doing this for 10 years now and there's still people that probably never heard you. Well, I've only been here for a few years and I don't always. Okay. Anyway, thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. You're welcome. Okay. So, Dr. Pete, I was going to ask you what you were describing as an anti-inflammatory dietary lifestyle, but I mean, you've already mentioned it. What are those, those things that you constantly... I won't say constantly in a negative way, but you repeatedly highlight the fact that both aspirin, progesterone, thyroid, vitamin D and calcium are important anti-inflammatory components of a healthy lifestyle. And other things that people often neglect are getting sunlight as much as possible and doing things that are fun. You've heard of the... Enriched environment, rat experiments, made their brains not only more intelligent but also bigger. That kind of entertaining environment causes rats to produce more progesterone and to have lower estrogen. So just doing things that are fun and interesting keep your hormones in the right direction. Yeah, it's another reminder for folks out there listening to this right now that... that whole subject of which we have done several shows on environmental enrichment uh it's been backed up by lots of animal studies that have shown categorically um you know like the four swimming test uh and other tests of endurance that the rats that just know no escape just fail and die quickly whereas the other rats that are given a bit of a chance you know they just they make it and the whole thing about environmental enrichment. Doing something you enjoy, folks. I mean, life's work, there's no doubt about it. I do a lot of work, so I'm totally up for some social and environmental enrichment. And I try to get it. We sure have a garden, and I like to walk to work, and I do get that, so I'm very lucky. I think people out there who perhaps feel entrapped by their jobs or entrapped by their situation need to get outside of themselves as much as they can. And even if it just means stepping outside the door and just looking up at the sky you know there's things like that that you can do just give yourself a few moments and don't forget to breathe and it's an old Buddhist saying don't forget to breathe but I think it's been such a busy state in our life these days and it seems to be getting busier and busier and Dr. Pete will attest to that. Speaking of breathing I should mention that one of the main effects of taking thyroid or having a good thyroid function is producing carbon dioxide so you don't want to over breathe. Right well good on that note let's give out your information and I will quickly mention something that I feel led to talk about which is a very strange guy it seems to be doing the impossible Wim Ho you can check him out on the internet I would not advocate what he does. Or the reason by which he does what he does but over breathing is something he ascribes to which is completely the opposite philosophy to Dr. Pete. But anyway for those people that have listened tonight and for those people that have called in thank you for your questions. Dr. Pete's website is raypeat.com he's got at least 50 if not more articles that are fully referenced. On many different conditions pathologies states of mind of being well worth reading is quite heavy some of it is very scientific but he's also very approachable too I think he's still possibly approachable I don't know where he gets the time from but and we can also be reached 1-888-WBM-ERB or on the internet at westernbotanicalmedicine.com I want to just say again it's April 2019 we will have an Instagram page dedicated to Dr. Pete's work from A to Z and it will be from the horse's mouth. I won't add to it or take away.