 Well, welcome to this 2019, January, the 18th, 2019 edition of Ask Your Herb Doctor. As usual, the third Friday of every month is given to the show, which is a one-hour live call-in from 7.30 until the end of the show, 8 o'clock. And this month's topic is going to be just wrapping up the last two discourses from December and November on skin cancer. But to tie in the topic of oncogenes with viruses and epigenetics, with the viricidal activity of selected medicinal plants, there's lots of research and whilst I know there has to be a little bit of reservation and careful reading around the subject, there's a wealth of new articles being published. On PubMed and other quote-unquote scientific peer-reviewed sites, ResearchGate and quite a few others have got lots of 2018 and some even from this month, January 2019, research being done either on new subjects around viricidal components or bringing up old material with a new spin as we'll see with Cantha and some of its imine. derivatives. The number here if you live in the area or if in fact if you live in Iceland or anywhere else on the planet is 707-923-3911. We'd love to hear from you from 730 until the end of the show and for those people especially who have experience with Dr. Pete following his protocols seeing the benefits. Dr. Pete again thank you so much for joining us this month. For those people who perhaps haven't heard of you and don't know too much about you we'll just give a rundown of your academic and professional background before we get started. Okay, graduate study in biology for PhD 1968-72 University of Oregon and since then following up on some of the ideas that I worked on for my dissertation. Aging and cell energy production basically and among other things that includes how hormones from foods promote viral immunity. Okay, good, I'll just qualify what you've briefly touched on there, you're a big advocate of, well let's call it natural medicine anyway, but a big advocate of food based help in terms of helping the organism to... recover their homeostasis, their balance to fight infection, etcetera, whether it's producing natural steroids or fighting bacteria and viruses. So you're a big advocate of good food and essentially in that I think when I first discovered you, you were the person who pretty much set me straight with fish oils and liquid oils as being good for you, actually being very destructive. So you'd spend a lot of time......discussing the nutrition aspects of healing, don't you? animal diseases such as mastitis in cows and he showed that the healthy cow could actually have more bacteria in its udder than the sick cow with mastitis and that a healthy cow tolerated microorganisms without suffering damage from them and that was what led me to get interested in. The newer research, Jamie Cunliffe in England, has what he calls the damage theory of immunity in which the immune system really is a system for repairing tissue damage and if microorganisms cause damage, then the immune system so-called will clear out the... microorganisms that cause the damage, but that's a side effect of repairing the damage. Polly Matzinger, about the same time, came out with the danger hypothesis, and that's very similar, except it doesn't... isn't really as realistic as Jamie Cudliffe's, because it still leaves it open. We're seeing the microorganism as intrinsically dangerous, where I think the facts indicate that we can tolerate microorganisms as long as they don't poison us. Right, or if indeed we're not poisoned by the environment in which we live. Yeah. I mean it's a very grand idea and I think for some people they are successful in putting it into practice. I think they're speaking from personal experience in terms of having been helped by you and guided and you know put straight about things that I thought were true when I was studying herbal medicine in England back in 1993. It's, like I said, a grand idea to have that common root that the body is intrinsically able to heal itself if you give it the right material. And I don't necessarily mean the drugs, whatever it is that pharmaceutical companies produce to treat, quote-unquote, the illness, but that the body has got a fairly good, it's got an incredibly miraculous way of running, per se, and then has a pretty good... a pretty good way of dealing with organisms and threats to its own homeostasis, which will, hopefully, we get into here fairly soon. When you look at a viral disease epidemic, there are always people who don't succumb to it, and you often find that they have contracted the infection. They have antibodies to it, but it didn't make them at all sick, or just slightly sick. Okay, I just want to remind myself here, when you started talking about the organism and the cows with the higher loads of bacteria that were actually fairly safe and non-susceptible, that makes me think of the theory of terrain that I read research, as I was doing my dissertation on the essential oils of the Labietae, the mint family, when I was studying my degree in herbal medicine. And there was a couple of French scientists who developed this theory of terroir, or the terrain of the organism, being exactly what you're saying, the key pivotal moment around which disease will or won't affect the organism, and how the terrain could be subtly changed with essential oils, and I got to learn about the isoprenoids and the terpenes and all of the other volatile smells that we get from the mint family, and I hopefully later on Thanks for watching! I will touch on some of those medicinal herbs that have had some fairly recent documentation as being viricidal and again I've got to make it kind of make it plain that people need to do their own research because when I brought articles to your attention and said well hey how about this you've said well actually that's not because of this it's because of this and I think we'll maybe talk about that a little bit concerning mevalinate and statins and how this whole it was supposedly a good thing but let me can i first start by just clearing up a few questions from the last month about melanoma we talked about skin cancers whether it's basal cell or squamous cell and or actinic keratoses or whatever they want to classify them at but apparently the incidence of melanoma has been on the rise exponentially since the 80s i think from before that i've seen has increased 500 percent since about 1940 okay what do you think about that do you reason for that um i'm pretty sure it's not sun exposure because it has an inverse relation with altitude okay and the change that i think is relevant is the polyunsaturated fats diet which have increased just about at the same rate that melanoma has Are you thinking it's because the polyunsaturates are energy-depleting and or producing lipid frisking in the skin or? Many of those things, yes, the energy goes down and inflammation goes up. In the veteran study, supposedly to prevent heart disease in the 1960s, they gave corn oil based diet to one group and regular fats. Including margarine and butter and ordinary moderately unsaturated fats. And the one group that got corn oil in their diet regularly at the end of eight years had three times the mortality from cancer. So one of the industry's own studies related to what you see in the animal studies that... For example, if you look at just linoleic acid, which was the original essential fatty acid, so-called, as the proportion of linoleic acid in the diet goes up, the cancer incidence, mortality, goes up right with the proportion of linoleic acid. Okay, these are just because the pro-inflammatory nature of this in people's diets and in the food chain in general. And they do interfere with production and use of cholesterol. Right. Okay, good. I'm glad you mentioned that because we will touch on that again a little bit later. Okay, so I was looking at an article that whose headline was the following. I just wanted you to comment on this, that the lung cancer incidence decreases with elevation, quote unquote, evidence for oxygen as an inhaled carcinogen. So oxygen. Sea level versus altitude and and what you've always mentioned about CO2 being protective with longevity, definitely increasing with elevation. The insurance companies have known for more than 100 years that cancer mortality in general decreases with altitude, very low in the high altitude cities and as the oxygen pressure in the air increases. The carbon dioxide tends to decrease if they are competitive, the pressure of oxygen displaces the carbon dioxide bound to blood. So this is at sea level, so people at sea level are much more likely perhaps statistically than to get cancer because they don't have the protective effect of CO2 that you'd get at altitude? Yeah, it's an anti-inflammatory protective factor. Okay, good. All right, well, you're listening to Ask Your Ep Doctor on KMU-D-Galveston 91.1 FM from 7.30 till the end of the show. We'd love to take calls related or hopefully not too unrelated to this subject of skin cancer, oncogenes, and then hopefully in a bit here we'll get into some viricidal activity of medicinal plants and ask Dr. Pete his opinion of the structures because I know he's got a few favorites, especially those things that have dark pigments and all. The dark red color, the free radical quenching things like paludarco, but anyway the number here if you're in the area or even if you're not is 707-923-3911. So I just wanted again to just quickly cover what I found is very disparate information on the one hand, this is all from either looking at PubMed articles or ResearchGate articles and again you can definitely offer your impression of those and I know that you've got. There's a lot of history with bad research being uncovered new finding information that's completely contrary and or just a downright stupid being published. I don't know how it happens but it happens it gets into print and people read it and then you've got to spend a time unlearning a lot of things that you thought were the way you've been told they were but statins and I know you're completely against statins and actually you've got a very different. Base level at which someone's cholesterol will be turned by you healthy I know the medical association start looking at interfering with people's cholesterol levels when they get up to 200 also milligram percent and you've always said that the elderly. Even people over 50 not that the elderly but people over the age of 51 a cholesterol level of 200 or 220 230 so in terms of what statins do I. I saw from their pharmacology that they block mavalinate or they can interfere with mavalinate and it's a kind of upstream chemical and this can cause aneuploidy and this in its own right is a really quite a serious outcome for using statins so if you experimentally starve cells for cholesterol. The same thing that statins does to the person. The cells in vitro are stuck in the tetraploid state. They can't do the reductive separation of chromosomes and old people's skin is relatively loaded with cells stuck in that state because they're with aging. The cells lose their ability to maintain the production of cholesterol and when they get stuck in that condition, then if something forces them to divide, they get the number of chromosomes sort of randomized as they divide and that can produce cancer cells. Any protocol? Do you have any kind of answers in terms of rejuvenating skin cholesterol? Experimentally, in the cosmetic industry, they're starting to put cholesterol in cosmetics. In effect, it does rejuvenate the cells. It restores their ability to divide healthfully. So you can physically, topically apply cholesterol in the form of an ointment or a cream to the skin and expect the skin to take up a reasonable portion of that? That's what the experiments show and the cosmetics companies are taking advantage of it. Interesting. Okay, because that was the whole thing that you mentioned about vitamin D production in the elderly. You have to have twice as much or more sunlight exposure to get the same conversion from cholesterol to vitamin D, which is so important for... immune health and, you know, immune suppression, immune surveillance. There's half as much cholesterol in the old skin as... Half as much. OK, so that's a potential to look out for, then. And I think from an anti-aging perspective of... I know the collagen is the issue... well, is some of the issue in people's skin when they get older when it starts to look a little unsightly or wrinkly or saggy or however they'd want to describe it. Do you think there's much that can be done to restore the collagen or the scaffold in which the skin is normally elastic and stretchy? Yeah, the cells normally are able to turn it over. Energised cells can eat up the hardened, cross-linked, aged collagen and let the cells produce fresh collagen. The cholesterol lets the cells divide normally. They are more energetic, produce a thicker layer of healthy cells rather than a scaly, hardened layer of aged, flaky cells. Okay, so there does seem to be then, from what you're saying, research showing that that is beneficial, that if people want to think a little bit of that down, a little bit along those lines down the road, they could probably do something themselves in terms of......acquiring cholesterol and again because it's very fast, well, it's amphoteric and it's moiety, isn't it? There's a hydrophilic head, is it? And a hydrophobic tail? It's one or the other. Yeah, the practical way to keep your cholesterol synthesis ability is to avoid polyunsaturated fatty acids because they turn off... the synthesis of cholesterol and interfere with its use in the cells. Yeah, okay. I know I've had this question put to you before. In terms of raising your cholesterol, you've always advocated orange juice as a good fructose source that would actually increase a person's cholesterol. Yeah, getting the cell energized with sugar and supplementing thyroid if necessary. Yeah. So, if you were able to do this, you're saying you think the cholesterol here itself would be distributed evenly throughout the body and actually in the skin you would wind up with a higher concentration of cholesterol than before? Yeah, except if your body is already saturated with polyunsaturated fats, they will interfere with it and misdirect, put it into harmful forms. The aging brain has much less, about half as much. B-cholesterol as the young brain, but it fills up with the ester form combined with polyunsaturated fatty acids. It's just good to refresh me on this subject, but you've always said that four years is a rough approximation for the turnover of lipids in the cell. So given that you had a completely exclusive diet of saturated fats and you completely excluded polyunsaturates, after four years there should be a fairly good turnover within the cells. How is this the same with the brain, for example, if you're talking about the polyunsaturates causing damage in the brain and interfering... with energy production and, you know, the whole thing from dementia etc. down the road. Every night there's a tremendous turnover of the lipids in the brain but when you're asleep your blood sugar falls and the free fatty acids tend to be liberated from your fat stores and so if you have bad fat in your fat tissue during the night it's going to be in the blood vessels when your brain is remaking itself. If you can keep your blood sugar up or get your fat so that it's pretty saturated, then your brain every night remakes itself considerably. Okay, and then this is again a little off topic, but we've gotten on to the, excuse me, the topic of cholesterol. What about the, I think you mentioned this chemical to me a month or two months ago, hydroxymethylbutyrate as a producer of cholesterol, was that a precursor? Yeah, it's a precursor that......supposedly helps to increase it. Yeah, I think most people are always thinking about decreasing their cholesterol, but I'm always thinking about increasing it. I know my cholesterol is actually low. I almost have a problem with it. It's probably 135 or 140. It's very important to get it up to 160. Bodybuilders are the ones experimenting with this precursor, but I haven't heard much from them about its effectiveness. Interesting. Well, I'm due to get some basic blood work here done in the next month or two and I'll see if it actually has increased through using this product because I know it varies quite a bit and I think that may either be a seasonal variation with whatever food groups that we're particularly eating whether it's the fruits and sweet juicy things during the summertime or probably gravitating towards less of that and probably having to rely more on things like gelatin and meats and that in the winter times without so much fresh root. But anyway, it's coming up for half past seven here. So if people have any questions, the number is 707-923-3911. Give us five minutes or so. I think we have one or two callers kind of waiting. Let's just sit tight here. Actually, people were concerned about the roads and I can let you know that the big tree is still across the road on the avenue. We ought, but it seems as though the power line is off the road. Greek Road, a caller will call us back and let us know for sure. But still, please drive very carefully. There are traffic hazards everywhere. Okay, so Dr. P, if I can get into antivirals and have you give your perspective, because I know it's very different. And again, it takes a kind of a constant re. relearning in terms of cementing this, but the virucides per se, whether or not they are, you know, the latest and greatest direct acting antivirals or plant based antivirals that are specific antivirals for things like herpes, or whether they're for cytomegalovirus, or we, you know, the whole Zika thing that's happened here or dengue fever. There's lots of fairly current research which has been done on medicinal plants and the components of those and I'll get into those a bit later and ask you if you know anything about them in terms of the structure, because I think that's the important part. Lots of them seem to be flavonoids and essential oil components which seem to have quite a high affinity for virucidal activity. But within the actual role of viruses and how they take over the cell to manufacture their own virions and replicate and in things like hepatitis they reach huge proportions and burst out of the cell liberating millions of new viruses and this whole thing just seems to be so out of this world and sci-fi. Part of our genome is viral and is part of probably our historical You know being in contact with viruses historically how these things have just become part of our makeup and I'm not saying it's good and I don't think you would say that viruses are good either but in some ways I think you've said that they are messengers and can be used or can be understood in some beneficial terms but if you have anything to say on that then I'll question you about some of the specifics A very large part of our genome resembles the retroviruses but when you wonder how  viruses came into being since they can only exist in the cells of ire animals they obviously derived in some way from the ire animals genetic material and it's only in the last several years that Western biochemists are starting to recognize that there are particles circulating in our blood and lymph system. A Korean 60 years ago claimed that he discovered a third circulatory system other than blood and lymph which carries particles of genetic material and about ten years ago This was actually documented to not the third circulatory system but the fact that there are very small particles of nucleic acids circulating in the blood and lymph carrying genetic information to repair cells or change their functions. The particles are so small that people examining blood... under microscopes, just considered it to be sort of dust in the background. But with proper magnification, they see that there are these microvesicles, they call, which bud off from the surface of cells, or exosomes, some of them are called. They carry both DNA and RNA and proteins and other parts of cells that act as signals. For example, between... a working organ like the lungs and the turnover of cells in the bone marrow that are producing stem cells and immune cells and so on. So all of our organs are communicating with each other through these little particles that are about the size of viruses and that contain genetic information and proteins the way viruses do. Do you think there's anything, well let's say the word useful, about viruses? I mean I always imagine viruses just to be the bad guys and just you don't want to pick up a virus if you can at all avoid it because there's nothing good about them. Is there anything to be said for viruses? I know most viruses, the smart ones at least try to keep the host alive, but a lot of viruses you know end up with... causing morbidity and early death so when bacteria are exposed to a dangerous environment such as antibiotics they are able or starvation they are able to edit re-engineer their own genes to produce adaptive changes so it's now recognized that bacteria... are capable of non-random so-called mutations for defensive adaptive purposes and when one bacterium achieves the immunity to a certain thing in the environment they can conveniently pack it up into a little exosome, a plasmid, which they pass on to their neighbors so it spreads like a viral infection it's like... You can share the good news. Yes, a self-constructed virus that the bacteria pass on for the defense of the community. And within our body, we're passing these little plasmids or microvesicles to different parts of the body. When we eat another organism, we incorporate some of their DNA into our own cellular DNA. It's like beef and you get some... some cow DNA incorporated into the cells. You eat carrots and you get some carrot DNA. And in that sense, we're communicating across species all the time, genetically. It's kind of equivalent to what the bacteria do defensively. I imagine that viruses... have some of that function so that if it's in our genes, and it's like a bacterium can use its adaptive ability to change its genes or to find this plasma that it has received from a neighbor. I think we have the ability to look into our genetic reservoir including carrot and cow genes. To see what's useful and that these things, if they aren't useful, if we're not able to adaptively use them, if our energy is very low, then they can cause trouble. They can interfere with our adaptation, but if our energy is high, I think getting these particles of genetic information can actually increase our repertoire. Very good. Interesting. Okay. Well, I think we have a caller on the line. So let's take this first caller. You're on the air. Where are you from caller? What's your question? I'm from New York. Andrew, by the way, great questions tonight. Really excellent job. I want to ask you two questions, but I want to follow up on the cholesterol, if you ask me in context. The total cholesterol, 225 to 230 for older people. What about, is that the only one that matters? There's triglycerides, there's LDL, HDL, and it's very hard to know how to consider those, what are the appropriate ranges, even relative to someone who has a normal cholesterol, let's say, of 225. Okay, so Dr. P, what would you say about HDL, LDL, triglycerides, in terms of their range, because I know, actually, let's start off... You actually view, you can quote me if I'm wrong, but the quote-unquote bad cholesterol is not what you see as a bad cholesterol at all, you see that actually is a building block for manufacturing steroid hormones. Okay, maybe our engineers, I think our engineer might have hung up. We just lost Dr. P somehow, I'll get him back. Okay, well, let's just... I guess we can do some music or something until Dr. P comes back on, and I could just discuss the next subject, but it seems a little wry, unless we have him on the line. Well, like I said a little bit earlier on, we'll hopefully get into some of the medicinal plants that have been shown to be viricidal, viristatic, and just briefly talk about some of the compounds that are responsible for those effects. So anyway, I think we have the caller back, we have Dr. Peat back hopefully, Dr. Peat, you there? Yeah, the part of his question I heard was about triglycerides. Yeah, he said what was the relative proportions of the other components, HDL, LDL. And triglycerides. But I know that you view LDL and HDL differently to the way that they would class them good and bad cholesterol. You don't actually look at them that way. So the question was the relative proportions in terms of what would be healthy or normal given that you advocate a slightly higher cholesterol than what would typically be seen as a regular normal cholesterol. Yeah, when you're low density cholesterol is low. That's what increases the cancer risk or dementia risk too. But the things that poison your liver or stress you increase the HDL and it happens that that protein that forms the HDL is anti-inflammatory so it's a defensive reaction to stress. So those estrogen and alcohol for example will increase the HDL defensively. The LDL is a protective source of the cholesterol and if the triglycerides are fairly saturated they aren't very harmful. They found that heart failure is actually less of a problem if your triglycerides are high. But if the triglycerides are polyunsaturated......goes with interference with the function of the cholesterol. And free fatty acids are the dangerous form of fats in the blood. They have multiple interference, for example, with oxidative metabolism and the use of sugar. But the triglycerides are pretty innocuous. They're just evidence that you're under stress and not... using your sugar properly. Okay, that was the first question. My question that I had before Andrew asked that question earlier, that was the follow-on, relates to a 22-year-old. Just as an example, he sprains his ankle, the ligaments, some ligaments are torn, some are stretched. Let's say one is stretched, one is torn. And he's trying to get back and walking. It's entirely blown up with... swelling and stress as you know. When that happens it turns. What are the three or four things that you would do to make sure that it heals properly? Meaning that I think based on what I've read is you think that healing is ideal in a baby when there's no scar tissue but we're told that scar tissue has to form in order for the torn ligament to attach back to the bone and for the... stretched ligament to tighten up on its own you will have to form scar tissue for that to happen and we're thinking that that might lead to arthritis etc down the road so i'm just wondering right now to avoid problems with arthritis 20 years from now what is someone who's you know a 22 year old what what should they be doing now to heal the injury quickly and focus on the long-term low scar tissue outcome Things to keep the free fatty acids low so that you use your glucose as efficiently as possible to produce anti-inflammatory things like carbon dioxide and aspirin and niacinamide for example are anti-inflammatory things that reduce the disorganizing kind of scar tissue and promote maximum quality healing with a minimum of excess random collagen deposition gotcha okay and so red light and co2 would also be useful but those are more short-term trauma reducing issues the actual intake of low proof aspirin and niacinamide you're saying will help reduce the scarring yet facilitate healing properly and vitamin d and vitamin k are very important getting enough calcium in your diet with vitamin d so that you keep your parathyroid hormone suppressed to keep the tissue energy high including salt in your diet to keep the aldosterone to a minimum because aldosterone promotes disorganized collagen healing and fibrosis so that some unexpected things sodium and calcium in the diet are protective to the healing of connective tissue. Gotcha. So the last aspect of this, if a doctor tells you, a trained doctor says, gee, the only way it's going to heal is when the scar tissue develops. Well, good scar tissue is fine, but the worse your metabolism is, the more disorganized the scar tissue is, so that a keloid... For example, it's terrible scar tissue, very disorganized because of polyunsaturated fats in your circulation, disorganizing the healing. A baby in utero with no essential fatty acids in circulation and plenty of carbon dioxide will heal without any disorganized structures. That's a great answer, and I appreciate that. Can I ask one other question, Andrew? Very quickly, because we do have a couple of other callers, so let's be quick. Will do. So let's say an older person has fungal toe, and they've had it for a really long time. Someone has suggested mixing equal parts of apple cider vinegar and hydrogen peroxide and soaking the toe for 30 minutes each day for about a month. I know you've mentioned sulfur. But what do you think about this idea? I've tried it and it does change. It does have a physiological effect, but I'm not sure whether it's a good one or a bad one. How about iodine, Dr. P.? Iodine is a good fungus killer. Vinegar is a pretty fair antagonist to the fungus. In combination with hydrogen peroxide? Because that seems to be a fantastic product. Both of them. Individually, I imagine together they work all right too. Okay, so just another way to do it. So you're okay with that approach? It sounds very safe. You can damage the tissue with too much hydrogen peroxide. Once I spilled some 30% peroxide on my finger and it turned strangely paper white and I stuck it in a bottle of ascorbic acid. and in a flash it looked normal. Alright, well thank you for your call Gawler. Thank you, thank you. We'd like to get these next people able to ask. So next caller, you're on the air. Where are you from? What's your question? Hi, I'm from Calgary, Alberta and I, Dr. P, I had followed your suggestion to take coconut oil but I find that every single time I try it, I try taking it and then removing it from my diet, every time I try to take it, there's wonderful things for me but it causes me really really bad digestive distress and I'm wondering why. What kind of coconut oil is it? I did try the like the ultra purified or whatever it's called and then lately I've been taking the like the scented one, not scented but like not refined. I just found that the... nice tasting unrefined ones were harder on the intestine and the ultra refined and even hydrogenated coconut oil I find is easiest on the intestine. Okay, okay good and I mean did you, instead of curiosity, did you ever find that that happened to you like when you were first starting it or was it fine? No, I did find the different brands if they... if you put it on a hot frying pan and if it smells then it's more likely to hurt your intestine. It should be odorless when it hits a hot pan. Okay, okay, good to know. I'll give that a try and hopefully it works because honestly I've had great success with it. You know normally without it I can't go long without eating. Like I'll get really low blood sugars but it helps me go so long without eating. It's absolutely incredible so I'm really thankful for your suggestion. And thank you for having me on the air tonight. Okay thanks for your call caller. Okay so let's take this next caller. Caller you're on the air. Where are you from and what's your question? Caller you're on the air. Caller that's why we say listen on your phone not on the radio. Three two one next caller. You are the caller. Okay caller you're on the air. Where are you from? What's your question? The other caller should call back, incidentally, if they can use a regular landline. That would be great. Yeah, I could hear that I'm on. I'm from Toronto. Yeah, I can go ahead. What's your question? Okay. What can an individual do has an opportunity to kind of intercept a psychopath and prevent the damage the psychopath would do to others? I just want to know if Ray Pete has any. Insight into that kind of psychological condition, because it seems that psychologists say there's nothing that can be done to normalize a psychopath or a cluster B, and I understand it makes up like 14% of the population and it has to be, yeah. Is the psychopath on medication? Yeah, probably. I'm not sure if... they are on medication or not, but it might have something to do with, yeah, bipolar or a separate type of diagnosis. Well, Dr. P, I'm not too sure there's an answer for it, but if anyone's got one, you have. Keeping the brain well energized, and that means keeping the blood sugar steady. Sometimes just a very digestible diet can... make a person feel so much better that they don't have to exploit and manipulate other people. And that might have something to do with the sort of narcissistic quality to it that it might be kind of a sort of a food condition, not wanting to eat or kind of having low calorie intake. Yeah, I think the addictive personality that needs alcohol or drugs and such. It is somewhat in the same boat, needing something that they can't get themselves. They try to control others to make their life better, but if their life suddenly becomes better by changing their metabolism, I've seen lifetime addicts to alcohol or heroin or cocaine just overnight, literally, drop their addiction. Good, excellent. Okay, well, let's just leave the rest of the show open for people who might want to call in. There's just about seven minutes left, I think, so the number if you'd like to call is 707-923-3911. Dr. Ray Peat is joining us and we'll start to get into some of the topic of viruses and viricides and the kind of latest research that's been done. And we'll probably have to carry this over till next month so people if they've listened to this and were expecting to get some more than the last segment of this show on the subject then next month I think we'll probably carry this over. So Dr. P, again I question you about viruses and I question you many times about things like hepatitis virus and I know you've mentioned the Zika virus outbreak that I think you would have a very different explanation for and you've mentioned I think a person's physiology and the terroir of the person being very responsible for actually having an outcome of coming down with it or resisting it and I think that's quite a fit answer. Let me just hold on a second here because the lights are going crazy in the engineers room there so I'm not too sure whether he's lining. Lining people up, I think he is. I probably just hold that train of thought because we have a caller. So yeah, caller you're on the air, in fact, we have two. So let's take this first caller on the air. And what's your name? Where are you from? What's your question? Sorry. I'm Robin. Am I on? Yeah, you're on Robin. Where are you from? Okay, great. I'm from West Haven. From where? From West Haven, Humboldt County. Oh, okay. Go ahead. What's your question, Robin? Yeah. And you should turn your radio down. I think you might have a radio on in the background. Yeah, will you turn that radio down? Good. One is about gallbladder and healing it. Okay. And my gallbladder is not, you know, not functioning very well. Okay. And a friend was talking about doing a fast, a great fast, which I've been hearing about, like, you know. Intense fasting, and that that can be really helpful. In fact, my naturopath also recommended it. So I wanted to hear what Dr. P had to say about that. Yeah, well, intense fasting is definitely not to be recommended. So first, I will let Dr. P go for it, but go ahead, Dr. P. Did you say grape? Grape fasting? Yes. Yeah, I did. Grape. Years ago, I read a book called The Grape Cure by a South African doctor, and I knew people. One started a little health clinic across the border in Mexico based on the grape diet. And so I investigated. That was one of the things that got me interested in the purple pigment in grapes and other fruits as a stimulant to proper oxygen use and combined with sugar. And the minerals in grape juice, grape juice does have great therapeutic effects or just eating the whole grapes but either one it has many therapeutic effects. So the call of Robin, in terms of your gallbladder do you have things like obstruction or do you have deficient bowel production and fat intolerance or what's the diagnosis with your gallbladder? I have fat intolerance. There's nothing showing up on ultrasound. But I also have, you know, kind of a whole mix of hypothyroid and some mold sensitivity. And I'm doing with SIBO right now and so the gallbladder is very sensitive to low thyroid function or high estrogen in relation to progesterone. Progesterone relaxes it. Estrogen tends to cause spasms. And the sick reaction to fats is because the thresholds are lowered by the high estrogen to progesterone ratio. And the key to it is almost always low thyroid function. Correct your metabolism by getting your body temperature up to daytime typically around 98.6 Fahrenheit or 37 degrees centigrade. I have also definitely seen a good case in point for plant bitters based on things like the Swedish bitters formula, things that will increase your digestive enzymes and your stomach pH and pepsin production and those kind of things, the fat intolerance anyway, definitely works very well to reduce flatulence and bloating and that kind of thing which is a kind of derangement of pH. Okay well we do have one more caller so let's get this next caller on the air and caller you're on the air. What's your question? Where are you from? My question is about, I'm from Eureka, my question is about if Dr. T knows of any medical condition or cause that would lead a person to develop digestive issues where there's like frequent and loose bowel movements and as well as high blood pressure. Things that just sort of came out of the blue, but about the same time in my life. Okay, Dr. Peay, did you get that? Yeah, there are lots of things that can be involved, but the stress physiology is generally involved in both inflammation and tendency to diarrhea. High blood pressure. Have you had blood tests? Yes, yes, they've been normal. Everything has looked really good. What do you think about anti-serotonin? Yeah, low thyroid function with a TSH measurement, up to three they call normal, but anything above... One is likely to promote inflammation, including in the intestine, and high serotonin is the main thing that contributes to an overactive bowel, and it's also, it's named for its ability to constrict blood vessels and raise blood pressure, and there are drugs that will lower it, such as ciproheptadine. Usually you can change your diet to reduce the inflammatory foods, such as starches or raw or undercooked vegetables that support bacteria that cause the intestine inflammation. So less starch and less raw vegetables? Yes, salads and bread and beans and nuts. Even potatoes can sometimes feed the bacteria that cause the inflammation and release serotonin. Okay. All right. So, when you look at that, can you get a measurement on the serotonin that you have in your body? I mean, does a blood test do that? Would blood analysis do that? It will usually show up as increased reverse T3. And sometimes an actual low T3 count. But the simplest approach to it is to eat a bland fiber. Some people are okay with cooked oat bran as a mush, but some bacteria can feed on that. And cooked mushrooms and cooked bamboo shoots are bland fibers that will......often will lower the serotonin and diarrhea effect. Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Dr. Pete, thanks so much for your time. I'll give out information about how to find more about you. Oh, okay. Thanks. Thank you. Okay, so for people who have listened to the show, every third Friday of the month we do a one-hour talk show with Dr. Pete as our host. And... he can be contacted through the Internet. He has a website which is www.raypeat.com. He's got a lot of well-written articles that are fully referenced and very educational. I will say that they're very scientific so if you really are a real basic layperson you might find it a little hard going. But if you have any real interest in science and research and you'd like to dig deep and find out things, it would be a very good place to look for the articles that will quote why things he's saying are the way they are. I can also be reached as well Monday through Friday. Either email me or send a voicemail to our 888 number which is 1-888-WBM-ERB. Or my email address is andrewatwesternbotanicalmedicine.com. Okay, so until the third Friday of next month, I wish you all good night and we will carry on. Just for those listening now, I never got into hardly anything to do with viricidal activity of compounds, chemicals, medicinal plants and how we can, again, through Dr. Pete's wisdom, best arm ourselves with the best possible choice, best possible chance of staying healthy. Okay, so till this same time, third Friday of next month, goodnight.