Sales Pitch for Linseed Oil

Editor:

Your publication performs an
important service in allowing the free
expression of ideas in medicine and related
subjects. Many publications, contrary to
the spirit of science, “protect” their readers
from improper ideas. Too many
publications are actually protecting their
advertising revenue by rejecting criticism
of certain drugs or food supplements.
Industries with annual profits in the
billions of dollars have the power to control
medical journals, professors of medicine,
and public opinion. TL/D is one of the few
publications which has allowed criticism
of the idea that our diet should be
supplemented with the essential fatty
acids.

The article in your December issue by
Mike Minarsich, and the book review
excerpt by J.S. Bland, Ph.D. call for some
special criticism. Minarsich is obviously a
linseed oil salesman (president of New
Dimensions Distributors), and he takes
his pseudo-facts right out of the book by
Udo Erasmus, so my comments are mainly
about the Erasmus book, and some of its
ideas which are derived from the “scientific
work” of Johanna Budwig.

Dr. Bland’s review excerpt says “Fats
and Oils is filled with interesting and
accurate information...” and “is the first
complete guide to everything you need to
know about fats, oils and cholesterol to
make the right food choices for your
health.” T.H. Huxley said that book
reviewers too often get all their
information on the subject from the book
being reviewed, like the Abyssinian who
supposedly took his steaks from the same
ox he was riding; but it is hard for me to
believe that B;and has really read this
error-filled, incompetent, and possibly
deliberately misleading book. If Udo
Erasmus is a hired commercial writer
working from information provided by his
employer, then he has done a smoothly
competent writing job, and it is the
publisher who misleads by failing to give
some background information. Judging
by the book, I suspect that neither
Erasmus nor Budwig has studied the
fundamentals of organic chemistry. That
isn’t important. But it is very important
that linoleic acid, and related oils, in the
amounts recommended by Udo Erasmus,
are known to cause:
impaired brain development and learning;
damage to skin and bones;
accelerated aging and age-pigmentaccumulation;
damage to the circulatory system;
increased cancer incidence;
suppressed immunity;
endocrine dysfunction.

U.S. consumption of seed oils had been
almost doubling every decade since the first
world war, but the technological advances of
the 1960s which allowed paints to be made
from petroleum derivatives, rather than from
linseed oil, safflower and soy ai!, stimulated
the redirection of Large amounts of these
substances from paint production into the
food market. Clever marketing tricks are in
some cases creating price mark-ups of
10,000%. I spoke to a dealer who said he
recognized the toxicity of linseed oil and
wouldn’t use it himself, but that the profit
was so big he was going to keep selling it.

An acquaintance who died recently after
several months of eating large amounts of
Linseed oil told me that it had been used by
both W.F. Koch, M.D. and Max Gerson,
M.D. I knew this wasn’t true: For example,
Gerson’s program evolved from a diet for
migraine and tuberculosis into a cancer
therapy, and involved the use of thyroid
extract, liver, fresh juices, and a little butter,
but over and over he said “absolutely no oil.”
My friend sent me a page from Gerson’s
book, containing the recommendation for 1
tablespoon of linseed oil. My copy of the
Gerson book, published while he was alive,
contains no such statement on that page,
but rather the phrase in bold capital letters,
NO OILS! My informant also assured me
that Gerson had known Budwig and
respected her work. Gerson’s book contains
detailed discussions of all the main dietary
approaches to cancer, with a large number
of references to the scientific literature, and
it did not mention Budwig at all. Since
Budwig’s proposals are diametrically
opposed to Gerson’s he would have had to
account for them if he had known of them.

The people who are using Max Gerson’s
name and reputation to sell linseed oil are
harming the people they mislead, and are
dishonoring Gerson’s important work. The
altered book is going to boggle the mind of
any thoughtful student who tries to
understand what Gerson was really doing.

Minarsich and Erasmus similarly invoke
the names of several great biochemists in
making their sales pitch for linseed oil. Any
serious student of biochemistry will
recognize the absurdity of their outline of
biochemistry, but the average reader is likely
to swallow the idea that Ms. Budwig
represents the culmination of a century of
scientific progress. Dale Alexander made a
career of the idea that cod liver oil will
grease arthritic joints. Now a generation
later, the vast food oil industry has a
slightly higher class of sales promoters. It
is urgent that we start developing a more
critical medical-scientific culture.

Research showing the toxic effects of
unsaturated oils goes back more than 60
years. A 1985 article published in my
newsletter cites some of the key references.
These substances inhibit many enzymes
(e.g., in digestion, in immunity, in clot
removal, in thyroid function), they disrupt
mitochondrial energy production, and they
interfere with communication between
cells. We hear very little about these toxic
effects, and there is not much money
available for more research in these areas.
Naturally, these topics aren’t mentioned
in the Erasmus book. The “toxicity”
questions treatedin the book donotinclude
the toxicity of fresh and natural
unsaturated oils, and so they have the
function of a red herring, distracting the
reader.

For nearly 20 years, mainline medicine
has advocated the use of unsaturated oils
“to protect the heart.” A few scientists,
like Hans Selye, kept telling the (contrary)
truth. Now big business has many people
in “alternative medicine” falling for the
false establishment story.

Reference:

Ray Peat’s Newsletter, “Interactive
Toxicities of Unsaturated Oils and Iron,”
1985, 41.

Raymond Peat, Ph.D.
P.O. Box 3427
Eugene, Oregon 97403

Townsend Letter for Doctors February/March 1989
