Letters to the Editor

Correction Notice

Y)
Editor:

Tam writing to cal! your attention to an
error on page 687 of the December issue of
Townsend Letter far Doctors, in the article
on scleroderma. The dosage of DMSO for
the rheumatoid diseases is 0.5 - 1.0 ce
DMSO per kilogram of body weight, not
grams per kilo. The DMSO used was Rimso
50, which is 50% DMSO. The article is
otherwise correct.

The patient was last seen in my office in
October 1987 and she is continuing to
improve. Dr. Thompson at Texas Kidney
Institute is very pleased with the patient’s
outcome, and only sees her yearly now.
Lab studies done there in early November
*89, were Creat. Clear. 50, Serum Creat.
2.1, sheisstill on BP medicine, but nothing
else.

Sorry for the error, although [ doubt
that there will be any problem as thisisa
very safe medication. I will be glad to help
anyone who wishes to use this therapy, to
see if they can get the same results.

Keep up your good work with the
newsletter.

Ronald M. Davis, M.D.
16932 Highway 3

Webster, Texas 77598
w

Peat’s Position on Non-
Essentiality of Fatty Acids is
Unwarranted

Editor:

The recent point-counterpoint on
| essential fatty acids by Peat and Levin
(#77, Dec. 1989) deserves comment, in
case anybody is paying attention. Peat
seriously misrepresents the literature on
the subject when he tries to show that the
essential fatty acids (EFA’s) are not
essential. There are no experts in the field
who now disagree on the essentality of the
w-6 fami)y in man and lower animals while
the independent essentiality of the w-3
EFA family is established although the
clinical effects of its deficiency are still
being investigated. For this author to cite
only twoselected references on this matter,
taken from the 1940's and 50’s, in the face

112

of the vast literature built up during the
past half century of modern biochemistry
and clinical investigation is inexcusable.
Those who do not read (or understand) the
literature are condemned to repeat it.

From this unwarranted position, Peat
naturally has nowhere togo but toconsider
toxic effects and come to the conclusion
that the EFA should not be consumed at
all. The public and chinician alike would be
well advised to disregard this advice until
Peat has placed himself and his family on
an EFA free diet for, say, two years. In fact,
my own recent studies, both theoretical
andclinical (Rudin, D.O. and Felix, C., The
Omega-3 Phenomenon, Rawson-
Macmillan, 1987; Avon, paper, 1988), show
that there is a serious deficiency of the
3 family from refining and other factors
and that thiscan be related tog widespread
synergistic malnutrition involving
deficiencies of dietary fiber and other
essential nutrients along with excess
consumption of adversely interacting co-
nutrients, such as saturated and ‘funny’
(isomeric) fats, all of which may account
for the modernization disease syndrome
now comprising the bulk ofillnesses which
medical epidemiologica) studies have
shown to be unique to dietari!y modernized
societies.

Of course, too much of a good thing can
be harmful! and the issue, as always, is one
of optimization. Buttocondemn consuming
an essential nutrient in the face of its
deficiency is untenable.

This article is a good example of why
reputable journals require expert editorial
evaluation before publication, especially if
the issues are controversial and presume
to be on the leading edge of knowledge.

Donald O. Rudin, M.D.
A-307 Summit Drive
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania 19010

Review Needed on Source,
Extraction and Storage of Fatty
Acids

Editor:

Health has been a necessity for me
since my recovery from environmental
sensitivities and came largely as a result
of my own efforts. It was through the
search for answers that [ came to know

Stephen Levine [Nutri-Cology] whose
research has helped me greatly.

Of special interest in your December
1986 issue was the article on “The
Complicated Patient” by Sidney Bakerand
Leo Galland. More recently Leo Galland
has written on the importance of treating
parasitic infections. These are brilliant
men in their field and itis the publication
of articles such as those that makes the
Townsend Letter exceptional.

In the future, I wouldlike to see material
on the research of Johanna Budwig. Her
work with faity acids has been ignored far
too long. It would also be a service to your
readers if you were to publish material on
the importance of the source, extraction
and safe storage of fatty acids. Johanna, in
her recent letrer, referred to the work of
Udo Urasmus. Udo has written anexcellent
book on the subject entitled Fats and Oils.
Anyone interested in fatty acids should
not be without this excellent reference.

David MacPhail
294 Richmond Street East
Toronto, Ontario M5A-1P5

Aig
ta inne Nine rd

Adhesion

Editor:

There has been much in these pages of
late about linseed oil, pro and con, but no
mention has been made of its effect on

platelet adhesion and the prevention of |

death from thrombosis and myocardial
infarction (MJ). Late in 1965 Linitiated a
research project at the National Heart
Hospital jn London, England that was to
take six years and atacostofover $250,000
on the feeding to cardiac patients one sweet
rol! each day that contained 15 ml. of
linseed oil.

As background, in late 1965 I met Paul
Owren, Professor of Hematology at the
University of Oslo in New York City. He
had bad a mostexciting paperin the August
1965 issue of the Annals of Internal
Medicine (pp167-175). Init he hadreviewed
the connection between diet and heart
attack deaths in Norway during German
occupation in the years 1940-1945 and in
the ten post-war years. In these pages

Townsend Letter for Doctors February/March 1990
