Ray Peat's Newsletter

Copyright 2000

Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

Edema, estrogen, and aging: A
universal problem, and better
therapies

Before talking about the harmful effects of
edema, and of the things that cause edema, and of
the things that can remedy the various edemas, |
think it’s necessary to look at a few recent events
in the very long history of medicine’s intervention
in this problem of excessive tissue water. Other-
wise, I don’t think the great importance of edema,
and its fundamentally “estrogenic” nature, will be
clear. Aging, shock, hypertension, cancer, heart

Carbon dioxide and estrogen are impor-
tant in the regulation of water, which is a

major problem in stress and aging.

failure, and many other biological problems
involve edema as a central factor, and relieving
the edema is probably an essential part of solving
those problems.

Some people have defined “hameostasis” as
maintaining a consistency in the things dissolved
ia tic body's waiter. Physiologists have tried 10
explain how homeostasis is maintained, but they
have had the greatest difficulty with understand-
ing the water itself, and the things which allow the
body to maintain the right amount of water in the
various compartments of the body. Edema (“an
abnormal collection of liquid”) isn’t a sophisti-
cated concept, and is generally used interchangea-
bly with “water retention” and “swelling.”

Many people think of edema as an esthetic
p : They don’t like the appearance of fat

swollen ankles, puffy eyelids, and soggy-
boggy tissues in other areas. Swollen breasts and
uterus can cause pain, and often occur premenstru-
ally along with more generalized water retention.

January 2000

Estrogen’s role in edema is understood by many
women, but therapies have generally been
directed toward the water itself, with empirical
diuretics, because edema’s causes aren't
explained in medical texts.

ate distortion by the drug industry of the issues
involved. Beginning in the 1950s, the sale of new
patented diuretics (replacing traditional diuretics)
began in an atmosphere in which estrogen was
being given to pregnant women, to prevent
various complications of pregnancy (which in fact
were caused by excessive estrogen). Excess estro-
the cause of toxemia couldn’t be discussed

and the diuretics were sold as additional

tools for controlling pregnancy-associated water
retention, weight gain, high blood pressure, and
damage to the fetus. Pregnant women were also
ee, limit weight gain, and to sharply
sir consumption of salt. Estrogen, diuret-

Shock, pneumonia, and hypertension are

among the consequences of edema.
Understanding edema is essential for

| aura g stress, for preventing stress-
anne, and for resuscitation
uamlinnsosiens and dieting were demonstrably
all ha | to pregnant women and their babies,
ut they were imposed by the pharmaceutical-
rat (Besides their appalling
promotion of the new diuretics “to prevent
toxemia,” the pharmaceutical industry presented
the new chlorothiazide diuretics as the only drugs
capable of correcting the “sodium problem,”
creating multiple unnecessary confusions.)
Emphasis on diet and sodium restriction
served to put the blame for pregnancy problems
on the women who couldn’t control their

appetites. Besides the medical obscurantism that
didn’t want to examine estrogen’s role in toxemia
of pregnancy, there was a mechanical conception
of the causes of edema. Although no one could
explain how a molecule could fling an atom of
sodium out ofa cell or across membranes such as
the kidney tubules, “sodium pumps” were said to
explain the different concentrations of sodium in
different compartments, and water was said _to

assively “follow the sodium.” This theory failed
to explain how water_could be retained while
sodium was lost, or why osmotic pressure varied
under certain conditions..

Physical chemists understood how water could
he moved from one compartment te another, by
the process of electro-osmosis, but cell physiolo-
gists still generally believe in their sodium pumps
and give them responsibility for the distribution of

water. Medical textbook discussions of edema
have a pitiful-comical quality, because their elabo-
rate Rube Goldberg machines* don’t do what they
are supposed to do, despite all their embarrassing
ad hoc devices and convolutions.

Because of the abundance of oxygen in the
world, most things are in a relatively oxidized
state. Oxygen’s name means “source of acid,”
and it creates acids because of its great affinity for
electrons. Acidity is defined as a tendency to
accept electrons, or to release protons. In water,
it is common to speak only about the protons, and
to think of acidity as an excess of protons, a low
pH. Finely divided minerals such as clays and
zeolites, and partly oxidized organic substances,
have a streng and bind
water,because of the polar nature they have
because of their oxygen content.' It is extremely
hard to completely dehydrate materials such as
proteins and nucleic acids because of their polar,
predominantly acidic, affinity for water.

to ahasarh

+ Pa -
wenGency aosoto

*Rube Goldberg, who was educated as an engineer,
described his cartoon machines as “symbols of man's capac-
ity for exerting maximum effort to accomplish minimal
results.” He said “there are two ways to do things, the
simple and the hard way, and a surprisingly large number of
people prefer doing things the hard way.”

Soluble alkaline materials, with a tendency to
release electrons or accept protons, associate with

the acidic groups, tending to produce a neutral
pH. However, extremely water soluble chemicals
don’t have complete freedom to associate with
their oppositely charged groups in materials that
are insoluble in water; some enter, some are
excluded. This principle can be demonstrated
with drops of simple acidic organic liquids
suspended in water containing ionized solutes:
Their different solubility, combined with their
chemical affinities, creates an equilibrium, in
which the organic droplet has a negative electrical
charge.

Dead cells, such as hair, behave in this way
too, because this electrical and ionic behavior is
normal for any acidic solid, or immiscibie liquid
phase. It is the failure to recognize ordinary
physics and chemistry that has made Rube
Goldbergian cell physiology seem plausible to so
many people. Bioelectricity, and ionic selectivity,
are fundamentally passive, near-equilibnum
processes, that don’t require any convoluted
“special” apparatuses to explain them.

Wherl oxidative metabolismlenters the picture,
new acids are being formed inside cells. Carbon
dioxide formation is the essence of oxidative
metabolism, along with the formation of
metabolic water, from the interactions of carbon
fuel, electrons, and oxygen. Even before carbon
dioxide has covalently reacted with water, to form
carbonic acid, it has a great affinity for electrons.
This affinity, which predisposes it to react with
water and amines, governs its non-covalent.
adsorptive properties, but these are passed over by
Most prysiviogisis. Ca:rbou dioxide is cheamcaily
active in many ways, besides its contributions to
bicarbonates and carbonates and carbamates and
organic acids.

Both spontaneously, and enzymically, carbon
dioxide combines with water. Formed _inside the
respiring cell, it is constantly leaving the cell as
carbonic acid, bicarbonates, and carbonates. As it
streams out of the cell, any positively charged
group, such as a calcium ion, that it takes along
will enter extracellular fluids with the carbonate
or bicarbonate ion, approximately as a pair with
equal positive and negative charges, but the
removal of the alkaline metal ion will tend to
restore the proteins’ acidic nature, which had been

Ads Fem accept Shee beam SA Where Propons

Ache ate
ae

A PoHeo pa Hylerest ny nt foils snonen” iver ¢

approximately neutralized by the passive interac-
tion of acids and alkalis. The proteins, and the
cells, will be electrically charged to a higher
degree by respiration; nerve cells will show a
voltage of about a tenth of a volt, while red blood
cells, that don’t produce energy by respiration,

show an electrical potential of less than 1/400 of

a volt. This is partly a mnemonic device for
visualizing the general scheme in which
equilibrium conditions interact with dynamic
metabolic processes. The adsorptive effects of
carbon dioxide, and a great variety of other chemi-
cal effects, modulate the cell’s structure_and
function so that it retains far more potassiu:
sodium, and is able to excrete calcium while
binding magnesium. But this simplified picture of
carbon dioxide’s effects on minerals makes it
possible to understand the fact that the blood’s pH
is higher than the cell’s, and many other mysteries,
without resort to special hypothetical devices.
The alkaline metals that have been mobilized from
respiring cells in association with carbonic acid
remain alone in the blood when carbonic acid
turns into gaseous carbon dioxide and leaves the
blood in the lungs. Protons, if we have to talk
about them, are left in the cells, and subtracted
from the blood, by the reactions of carbon dioxide,
but the conventions for talking about the blood’s
alkalinity relative to the cells omit the background
conditons: The intrinsic acidity of the cell
substance, and forces exerted by the cell substance
on the dissolved substances.
Myxedema, or mucous-edema, is a classical
feature of hypothyroidism, but it’s not always
noticed, because it can occur in different tissues to

different degrees. The protein that forms_the

mucoid jelly is partly made up of ordinary blood

- . X ; fi . 2
4j nul) / Lyayse ©LB 7,

together, there are many pathways that lead to the
excessive accumulation of water in tissues. In
hypothyroidism, the adrenergic nervous system
tends to overactive, and adrenalin production is
sustained at a high level even when there isn’t any
external reason for it, since it is needed to
maintain adequate blood sugar and energy, in the
inefficient metabolic state of hypothyroidism.
Adrenalin mobilizes free fatty acids from
tissues, including fat and muscle tissues.
Estrogen itself produces elevated free fatty
acids. When the free fatty acids are unsatu-
rated, they cause edema, by making blood
vessels leaky, and by making cells take up
exira water; this can cause brain swelling, stiff-
ening of the heart muscle, and thickening of
the lining of blood vessels, eventually obstruct-
ing them. var cane Strum
Hypothyroidism/ suppresses respiration as a
source of energy/ so little carbon dioxide is
produced, and laatic acid is formed even when
there is no noticeable stress. This in itself resem-
bles hyperventilation, since loss of carbon dioxide
is the defining feature of hyperventilation, but the
presence of abnormally high adrenergic activity,
and of free fatty acids, stimulates further hyper-
ventilation, exacerbating the loss of carbon
dioxide. Decreasing the carbon dioxide impairs
respiration even more, leading to increased lactic
acid production, and that stimulates more adrener-
gic activity, and so on, in a vicious circle.
Unsaturated fats also suppress respiratory produc-
tion of carbon dioxide, and block the entry of

glusose ints cells.

Estrogen excess suppresses the liver’s ability
to synthesize albumin, and when this is combined
with the leakage of albumin into the tissues
(where it is slowly destroyed) and into the urine,

LA) vary AN B

ms Mla PIR BIW! I Idd a mp

/ s proteins, including albumin; transthyretin, the

; -e>| protein that carries thyroid hormone and vitamin _ the blood loses its ability to retain sodium, much

. . . . . . . . . . (-
- 8 A, is sometimes increased, and some connective of which is associated with albumin. Carbon

‘ tissue glycoproteins contribute to its bulk. dioxide, some of which is produced in the

; | Similarly to the way that mucus protects the lining _ kidneys, helps 10 refain secu, and this is proba-
> %| of the intestine from irritants, there is probably a _ bly the reason that hypothyroid people have diffi-
} protective aspect to the accumulation of culty retaining a normal amount of sodium

jy? myxedema in stressed tissues, where it has a (producing hyponatremia).

a cushioning effect. Both anima! and human studies have shown
a Starting with either hypothyroidism or hyper- _ that estrogen lowers the osmolarity of the serum
by estrogenism, or both, since they tend to occur and other body fluids » rearing a more “diluted”

(tan age ! ' 7
SOUR LRH |

D6 ey a. 4YGY4 ws prad Gua Yate ray Myrgioy Conan Yep FGM fot ale d& Tork. Coy

AIAZS WI A nal tnm 2 Or. feuds

a Ce ie as ee i
tr store

Pale

/ eee

SerymuUin , Ai > Toma , Wire

GS hu ae

liquid. Some evidence suggests that it acts at

different points to decrease the sodium (and
albumin) in the blood, and to allow it to enter
tissue cells, or to be lost in the intestine or urine.
Although this dilutional effect of estrogen on the
blood is small, it certainly increases the tendency
of water to enter cells. Especially when combined
with lactic acid and unsaturated fatty acids,
hypotonic solutign imitates the effects
[cFestogen and things that cause tissue leakiness,
such as cholera toxin, act like estrogen in the
uterus, the edema itself produced by estrogen

seems to be a central of its norma! physiologi-
cal action. (Histamine ) and croton and other
inflammatory § teleas y estrogen are

known to contribute to its ability to produce
| edema. The excess nitric_oxide produced under
| the influence of estrogen probably contributes to
/ some edematous, inflammatory, and degenerative
| conditions. Since these effects of estrogen on
| tissue water are considered to be nongenomic, and
independent to some extent of the normal estrogen

receptors and response elements, any tissue is
probably susceptible to estrogen-induced swelling,
as well as to the swelling produced by unsaturated
fats and carbon dioxide deficiency. Part of the
toxicity of unsaturated fats could be their require-
ment of energy to be oxidized (S. Clejan and H.
Schulz, 1986), but they reduce the efficiency of
energy production in a variety of other ways.. In
shock (whatever the cause), tissues become
edematous, aS water moves out of the blood
stream. The weight of organs increases tremen-
dously as a result of shock. In severe stress.
shock, and estrogen poisoning, the production of
energy is impaired by the swelling itself, though it
may have been low energy production that
allowed the shock-state to develop.

If estrogen can cause edema in any tissue, then
antiestrogens, such as progesterone, can probably
protect against stress in any tissue.

In the premenstrual syndrome, as in
pregnancy, a progesterone deficiency can cause
generalized edema. Tom Brewer, who founded

salt restriction, expecially when combined

with diuretics and a diet without adequate protein,
caused exaggerated edema in pregnancy, produc-
ing_a great nsk of hypertension by reducing the
blood volume needed for adequate perfusion of
the kidneys, and damaged the development of the
fetus, because of inadequate blood perfusion of
the uterus and placenta.

After I was convinced of the manner in which
salt restriction could cause edema, and knowing
that women are told to restrict salt to prevent
premenstrual edema, I began suggesting that
women Salt their food to taste, increasing their salt
consumption premenstrually if they craved it. |
had never known of salt restriction to prevent
premenstrue! edema, but [| immediately Legan
hearing that the women who ate all the salt they
wanted no longer experienced premenstrual
edema. :

After a couple of years, | was satisfied that
adequate protein and salt consistently prevented
premenstrual edema. I read an article by some
people who noticed that their patients who were
on low sodium diets “for high bloo ure”

_Yery often developed insomnia. They knew that
sodium restriction raised adrenalin levels, so they
took their patients off the low sodium diet, and
cured their insomnia.

Since Thad become a sound sleeper as soon as
I began taking thyroid, and had seen that thyroid
alone would cure most people’s insomnia
(sometimes, as one doctor described his experi-
ence, “better than morphine”) I began to under-
stand that the adrenalin which disturbed sleep was
an indicator of defective energy production, and
that the things which restored sleep—thyroid, salt,

sugar, protein, and progesterone, _— for
example—were acting directly on the cells’

energy production.

Since elevated adrenalin tends to raise blood
pressure, I began explaining the effects of salt and
thyroid to friends who were over 80. They found
that they slept better, had more regular heartbeats,
and didn’t suffer from swollen feet when they ate
a normal amount of salt. It didn’t cause their
blood pressure to rise.

Sodium bicarbonate and sodium chloride are
known to have diuretic action; sodium

SUM YIN WU NAM (EF EI BUN, A , FEU Rasen! dan
Pare Qsune dg ng

, Yes,

v

’

bicarbonate is often used to treat poisoning, to
accelerate elimination of the toxin, for example.
Although there are complex theories about

their effects, ] suspect {that two main processes are
involved. / By increasing the osmolarity of the”

blood, the blood volume is expanded by the entry
of water from the tissues, and this increased perfu-
sion of the kidneys would increase the formaton of
urine, and, co ag increased concentration
might simply increase the energy production of
the kidneys. The kidneys normally have a high
oxygen copsumption and an unusually high

carbon dioxide concentration, j ici-
pates in the formation of urine. (Acetazolamide,
an inhibitor of the enzyme carbonic anydrase,

is known to increase the body’s retention of
carbon dioxide, and is sometimes used to
increase the formation of urine, though its more
important uses are in the prevention of edema of
the lungs and brain in “mountain sickness” (a
result of hyperventilation), and to reduce swelling
of the eyes in glaucoma. It ts also used to prevent
sleep apnea, by correcting the alkalosis that causes
it. The inhibition of carbonic anhydrase causes
carbon dioxide retention, and this can produce
acidosis. Intracellular acidosis has many impor-
tant cell-protecting effects. By reducing the
lonization of the cell’s macromolecules, the cell’s
affinity for water is decreased.

Sodium bicarbonate is a more active diuretic
than sodium chloride. I think this has to do with
carbon dioxide’s special properties, including its
relative lipophilicity (preferential solubility in oils
or cells), and its chemical combination with water.

Since salt restriction is the commonest way to
try to correct edema, it’s important to think about
the physiological reasoning and evidence that
support that common practice. In physiology lab
classes, professors sometimes have one group of
students drink a quart of ordinary water at the
beginning of the class, while another group drinks
a quart of isotonic saline (containing roughly a
rounded teaspoonful of salt). Everyone measures
their urine output over the next few hours, and by
the end of the class, it turns out that those who
drank the plain water produced about a quart more
urine than those who drank the slightly salty

water. The conclusion is obvious: For every, 9
ams of salt, we retain a quart of water. That’s
an unfortunate cxperimen though because it
creates such a clear impression of salt’s immedi-
ate effect, but provides no information at al] about
its longer-range effects. Recently, a British physi-
cian, from Mongolia or northern China, studied
the incidence of hypertension in her native region,
where people consume at least 30 grams of salt
per day. She found no hypertension at all, even
among the oldest people. In my experiments, it
has taken the body only two or three days to
adjust completely to a massive change in salt
consumption. Many hormones adjust quickly to
retain or release sodium, according te the amount
consumed, if the person is otherwise well
nourished. Hypothyroid people, however, are
unable to maintain a normal sodium concentration
in their body fluids even when they increase their
salt consumption. ; ne
voir ae
Thyroid, protein, sodiugn, and magnesium will
correct most edemas. Progesterone, acting on
mitochondria to increase respiratory efficiency,
and on structural proteins to change their ionic
affinities, synergizes with the other natural factors
to correct permeability and water regulation. One
of the first people I saw use progesterone was a
woman who (after being studied at the Mayo
Clinic and many other places) believed she had
Bright’s disease, and habitually produced an
extremely small quantity of urine. A few hours
after taking just a few milligrams of progesterone,
she telephoned to report that she “had to stop at
every gas station on the way home,” because she
was forming urine at such a great rate. Increased
perfusion of the kidneys is one_of progesterone’s
norma! functions, that accounts for its ability to
prevent or cure “toxemia” of pregnancy. Besides
its ability to increase blood perfusion of the
kidneys (and other organs), progesterone has an
important role in mineral regulation, since it acts
as a “weak aldosterone,” protecting against both a
deficiency and_an excess of that adrenal hormone.
(The Kallikrein enzymes /which produce kinins
and related hormones are probably involved in the
effects of progesterone, estrogen, fatty acids, etc.,
on the permeability of blood vessels, blood

Wakeu & Busts

fa) doe :
Bb) b Guaviia H ¢ yA

NAA

é

news Le:

inn Suan 7-7)
t.. OLA

frye han

pressure, swelling, etc., but researchers have
surprisingly little interest in that system..)

Brain edema causes seizures, lung edema
causes “respiratory distress syndrome,” and Is a
factor in pulmonary hypertension. In the heart and
blood vessels, it increases rigidity and decreases
the efficiency of blood circulatoin. Degenerative
nerve and muscle diseases often begin with
edema; degenerative spinal disks, and lens
cataracts, are produced by an excess of water.

Although estrogen increases during acute
sickness in both men and women, women have a
higher incidence of estrogen-related diseases than
men do. In spite of a large number of degenera-
tive diseases caused by estregen, women lve
significantly longer than men do, and both animal
and human studies have shown that it is probably
progesterone which gives women this advantage.

It is this female longevity that has allowed the
drug companies to suggest that estrogen can
prevent degenerative diseases. Estrogen’s known
promotion of clotting diseases, edema, diabetes,
liver disease and blood pressure abnormalities, are
ignored while cholesterol is emphasized as a “risk
factor” that is favorably influenced by estrogen.
Estrogen’s elevation of free fatty acids, and the
edema produced by these, are ignored as if they
had no significance in the degenerative diseases.

I have already written about estrogen’s contri-
butions to brain aging and blood clotting diseases,
but I plan to write soon about progesterone and
thyroid as the important “heart protective”
hormones.

REFERENCES

Monaldi Arch Chest Dis 1999 Aug;54(4):365-72. The
pathophysiology of hyperventilation syndrome.. Folger-
ing H. “Hyperventilation is defined as breathing in excess of
the metabolic needs of the body, eliminating more carbon
dioxi an is produced, and, consequently, resulting in
respiratory alkalosis and an elevated blood pH. The tradi-
tional definition of hyperventilation syndrome describes "a
syndrome, characterized by a variety of somatic symptoms
induced by physiologically inappropriate hyperventilation
and usually reproduced by voluntary hyperventilation”. The
spectrum of symptoms ascribed to hyperventilation
syndrome is extremely broad, aspecific and varying. They
stem from virtually every tract, and can be caused by

Physiological mechanisms such as low Pa,CO2, or the
increased sympathetic adrenergic tone.”

Exp Brain Res 1998 Jun;120(4):461-9. Influence of
hypoglycemic coma on brain water and osmolality.
Gisselsson L, Smith ML, Siesjo BK.

Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult 1999
Jan-Feb;(1):19-23 [The mechanisms of the neuroprotec-
tive action of carbonate mineral baths in ischemic brain
lesions]. Tunian luS, Sekoian ES, Karagezian KG,
Grigorian RA, Manucharian GG, Karagian AT. Effects of
Arzni effervescent mineral baths (EMB) on brain tissue
metabolism were studied on white rats (normal controls and
those with transitory cerebral ischemia). It was found that
EMB prevent ischemia-related disorders of phospholipid
and adeninnucleotide pools, promote an increase in vasoac-
tive prostaglandins in brain tissue, shifts in catecholamines
concentrations in the hemispheres and hypothalamus, inhibit
the activity of monoamincxidase and absorption of
3H-noradrenaline by brains sections. Mechanisms of
neuroprotective action of Arzi EMB in cerebral ischemia
are considered.

Am J Med Sci 1998 Nov;316(5):321-8. Recent
insights into the coordinate regulation of body water
and divalent mineral ion metabolism. Baum MA, Hartis
HW.. “Traditionally, arginine vasopressin modulation of
renal water, sodium, and urea excretion has been consid-
ered somewhat in isolation from factors that control
divalent mineral ion homeostasis. Similarly, previous
considerations of divalent mineral ton metabolism have
focused mainly on the role of hormones, eg, parathyroid
hormone and various forms of vitamin D, as principal
modifiers of renal calcium handling. Recent data, however,
have now suggested the existence of novel linkages that
coordinate contro] of water and divalent mineral ion homeo-
stasis.” “This article. . . highlights the fundamental roles of
the extracellular calcium polyvalent cation-sensing receptor
(CaR) as an integrator of water and divalent mineral ion
homeostasis on a cellular, organ-specific, and whole-body
basis. Organs where CaRs may integrate water and divalent
mineral ion metabolism include endocrine tissues that
express CaRs, the brain, various nephron segments of ihe
kidney, bone, and the gastrointestinal tract. These new data
suggest that considerable regulatory overlap exists between
water and divalent mineral ion homeostasis.”

Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax 1995, Mar
21;84(12):328-34. [Electrolyte changes during and after
voluntary hyperventilation]. Stadler G, Steurer J, Dur P,

~ Binswanger U, Vetter W.

Dtsch Med Wochenschr 1997 Jul 11;122(28-29):887-9
[The effect of short-term hyperventilation on the concen-
tration of ionized serum calcium]. [Article in German]
Steurer, J, Pei, P, Vetter, W.

J Clin Invest 1975 Jan;55(1):149-56. Inhibition of
carbonic anhydrase by parathyroid hormone and cyclic
AMP in rat renal cortex in vitro. Beck N, Kim KS,
Wolak M, Davis BB

