Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission. Raymond Peat, PO Box 5764, Eugene OR 97405 February 2001

PREMISES FOR AN ARGUMENT:

than carbon dioxide. change:

a ON: amare,
Oy th wate

Estrogen, calcium, heavy
metals, and nerve
degeneration.

In the 1960s, someone noticed that a certain
crease on the ear-lobe was a strong indicator of
the tendency to have a heart attack. A little later,
different researchers showed an association of
wrinkled skin with smoking, and a strong associa-
tion between the percentage of polyunsaturated
oils in the diet and premature wrinkling. At the
same time, people were demonstrating that many
factors contributed to the stiffening of connective
tissues, and to a generalized "fibrosis." Intuitively,
everyone seems to know that the state of the skin
is an indicator of general vitality or decrepitude.
But the habit of thinking in terms of specific
diseases, rather than general processes, has kept
people from seeing that wrinkles, and other
connective tissue changes, are deeply related to
the major diseases of aging.

The senile brain accumulates a variety of
mineral deposits, and the argument has been made
that dietary aluminum is the cause of Alzheimer's
disease. It would be good to eliminate added
aluminum from our public water systems and
from our foods, but there is good evidence that
other processes are behind the accumulation of
aluminum and other minerals in our tissues.

b

defective. But as the soft tissues mineralize, the
bones and teeth demineralize. In both hard and
soft tissues, mitochondria regulate mineralization.

Mercury has been used medically for a long
time, and one of the popular uses for mercurial
compounds has been as a diuretic. The mercurial

diuretics suppress the kidneys’ respirato activity
and their ability to retain minerals, ire oe fluids
to pass through them relatively unconstrained.
This led to the understanding that the mercury

acted by interfering with the sulfhydryl groups
_ (mostly the cysteines in proteins) in kidney cells,

so when microscopic studies showed that the

ial diuretic caused calcification, beginning

in the mitochondria, this added to knowledge of

how mitochondria work, as well as to the general
process of soft tissue mineralization.

Hans Selye studied the process of metal-

induced calcification in rats. In one group of

experiments, he showed that an excess of iron

coma “ accompanied by swelling
or many years it has been recognized that a
practically i instantaneous | effiectof estrogen isto
stanulai, Se.fapihesiscs:aty Both of these
processes involve pervasive changes in the

energetic processes of the cells. Among the later

changes that t led one e 1 ahink of radiation

ation side-e: s noticed. After 100 years of
relative scientific inertia, there has recently been
some progress in understanding the common
processes behind "injury induced mineralization."

The biochemical arguments in the next few
paragraphs simply outline some of the facts that

have been omitted from the mainstream discus |
sions of brain aging, estrogen, and mineralization.

When I began studying the physiology of
estrogen, I found that the biochemical changes it
caused were the same as those of aging, oxygen-
deprivation, and radiation injury.

In my experiments, I found that both aging
and estrogen stimulation caused a great increase
in the availability of reactive electrons, which |
measured by their reaction with a dye. These
electrons come from an interactive system that
involves the proteins (cysteine) and glutathione,
and the various cofactor-catalysts such as ascorbic
acid and NADH (NAD is nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide; the name reveals its connections to
the vitamin, niacin/nicotinamide, and to the
"energy molecule," ATP, adenosine triphosphate,
but biochemists are seldom concerned with those
links; the H indicates the reduced, electronically

energized form of the prazae®

s
sulfhydryl groups. Simply lowering the pH is
highly protective against oxidative attack by
metals, and this is partly because the electrons of
the sulfhydryl groups are less accessible to the

oxidants in an acidic environment. The formation

"

health of a cell. NAD is so closely related to the

availability of ATP that the cell death system can
be triggered by a deficiency of NAD (Catisti, et
al., 1999).

The cell's reductive system, centering on
NADH and NADPH (the extra P, phosphate, in
this molecule allows it to be regulated separately
from NAD), is closely involved in fat synthesis.
If estrogen serves as a redox (reduction and oxida-
tion) link between NADH and NADP, fat

synthesis will be an additional drain on the avail-
able NADH.

In the 1950s, several endocrinologists gathered
evidence to show that estrogen can function as a
catalyst in the oxidation and reduction of the
pyridine nucleotides, NADPH and NADH. But in
the 1960s, the doctrine that estrogen's effects were
mediated exclusively by the "estrogen receptor"
began replacing all other ideas about estrogen
chemistry and physiology.

J. G. Liehr, and a few others, are still demon-
strating that estrogen can function as a catalyst in
"redox cycling" (alternate reduction and
oxidation), which generates toxic free radicals,
and can potentially serve as a drain on the NADH
systems. In functioning as a redox catalyst, estro-
gen oscillates between an oxidized and a reduced
molecular form. In this context, the ratio of the
different forms of estrogen takes on an entirely
different meaning than simply their different
effects on the so-called estrogen receptors. Since
the doctrine of the estrogen receptor became a
medical preoccupation, most attention has been
given to estradiol, since it is the "strongest" estro-
gen in some tests, though estrone, the oxidized
form, is usually present in the blood in much
larger quantities. The quantity of the oxidized
form of estrogen is increased in certain degenera-
tive conditions, such as uterine cancer, which is a
strong argument against the idea that, as a "weaker
estrogen," it would moderate the effect of
estradiol.

In my dissertation, I gave a few other
arguments regarding the wasteful consumption of
NADH. There is now good evidence for the
existence of estrogen-stimulated extramitochon-
drial NADH oxidases, in addition to the NADH
oxidase function of age pigment, that I have
discussed in an earlier newsletter.

Until the late 1970s, the fact that estrogen
causes increased absorption of calcium was
offered as proof that it prevents osteoporosis, but
then it turned out that the increased retention of
calcium was occurring only in the soft tissues,
where calcification is a normal trend with aging.
In fact, bone loss begins in a woman's twenties,

and continues fairly steadily during the period in
which the actual level of estrogen is rising.

Arteries and tendons tend to calcify with
aging, the brain and pineal gland, kidneys and
other organs retain more calcium and gradually
lose functions, and cells die with a calcium
overload.

Estrogen's stimulation of iron absorption was
ignored by people who wanted to sell iron pills
(often 18 mg per day) to women who lost iron
(maybe 5 mg per month) by menstruation. After
menopause, women absorb iron so fast that their
body's iron load generally catches up with men's
within a few years, at which time their incidence
of heart attacks becomes similar to men's. If estro-
gen is a major factor in the promotion of iron
absorption, women's accelerated iron retention
after menopause argues for the existence of a
more estrogenic state than when they were
younger. Since progesterone falls sharply at
menopause, the effect of the unopposed estrogen
is going to be very strong, even as the absolute
quantities of estrogen are declining.

When progesterone falls, the effects of
cortisol, as well as estrogen, are increased,
because progesterone antagonizes both of those
hormones. Under the influence of cortisol, fat
cells produce estrogen, and this effect is normally
inhibited by progesterone and thyroid.

Calcification of soft tissues and iron reten-
tion accelerate at menopause. The body
accumulates calcium, but it isn't going into the
bones. The body accumulates iron, and it too
goes into the soft tissues. Increased iron storage
in the liver is associated with insulin resistance,
and increased iron in any tissue is associated with
increased lipid peroxidation in stress.

Calcium and iron tend to be deposited
together, and the mitochondria are usually the
starting points for their deposition. Iron overload
has been implicated in heart disease, cancer,
diabetes, and many other degenerative diseases,
including the brain diseases.

Estrogen, and the free fatty acids that are
liberated under its influence, increase the perme-
ability of blood vessels, allowing water, proteins,
etc., to leak out into the tissues. Tumor necrosis
factor, induced by estrogen, reduces the "blood

brain. barrier" function, promoting brain inflam-
mation. The "blood brain barrier" means that
water soluble molecules are excluded, while oil
soluble molecules enter freely. Highly charged
particles such as metal ions are normally

efficiently excluded from the brain, in proportion
to their water-solubility..

1999).

et al.,

mitochondrial damage  (Catisti,

| " Estrogen's S toxicity to the developing brain
was established in the 1950s and 1960s. Maybe
it's a kind of progress, that the claimed benefits of

estrogen have aged with the drug industry: in —

nothing left to do but to prevent senile dementia.

The virologist, Gajdusek, wanted to argue that
his virus, and not the accumulation of aluminum,

was responsible for kuru and other brain degenera-
tive diseases, and so he did a survey of brains of
demented people from regions with different types
of soil, and showed that the menses
in the environment showed up in the brains. He
argued that this showed that the

was just the SE ge
than the cause of the brain degeneration. He
observed that the deposits consisted mainly of
calcium in regions that didn't have large amounts
of other metals, so he argued that a particular

metal such as aluminum couldn't be responsible
for brain degeneration. But he didn't consider that

strong bones and blood, in 1960 and 1990 it
helped prevent heart attacks, and now finally it has ~

factors other than viruses might be responsible for
the brain mineralization that he saw.

Although women re apenas ipl and
more Alzheimer's disease than men do, the /ac
estrogen is currently blamed for both of the’
problems. Why would Alzheimer's disease be so
different from the other predominantly female
diseases that have been linked to excess estrogen?
Why would women's brains be different from
men's? Why would their nerve cells degenerate
without estrogen, while men's don't? Obviously
women's brains and nerves aren't very different
from men's and there simply isn't any sensible
reason to believe that “estrogen deficiency" is
responsiole for Alzheimer's disease, or for osteo-
porosis, or for heart disease, or any of the other
problems that have been blamed on _ the
"menopausal estrogen deficiency."

The mass media find and publicize the things
they want to believe, or want the public to believe.
"Coffee causes heart disease," "estrogen prevents
Alzheimer's disease," they say. How do they make
the argument? Using plausible sounding terms
that hide the real situation is the general
technique. I don't want to give science reporters
disproportionate blame, because specious
argumentation is habitually practiced by many of
the professors and researchers who provide the
raw material for the news reports. In literature,
"poetic diction" is intended to put the reader into a
certain frame of mind, to be receptive to the poet's
purpose. Many scientists rely on something like
"poetic diction."

For example, a San Francisco study by
Kristine Yaffe and co-authors found that "free
estrogen,” "the active form of the hormone," was
higher in more of the people who had better
cognitive function. Yaffe, et al., also found that
dementia is associated with both depression and
osteoporosis.

There isn't really such a thing as "free
estrogen,” which is defined in terms of a particu-
lar laboratory situation that doesn't correspond to
anything in the body.

water, unless there is a large amount of seohol

poet as so}veatt.

of the solids. The laboratory measurement of "free
estrogen" is describing both a physiological and a
physical fantasy.

"Protein bound estrogen" is an active form of
estrogen, and the estrogen bound to albumin
probably accounts for most of estrogen's activity.
Free fatty acids, which compete with estrogen for
binding to the steroid-binding globulin, probably
modify the properties of the more abundant
albumin so that it binds more estrogen in its active
form, causing estrogen to move from other
proteins, lipoproteins, and red blood cells onto the
activated albumin. The presence of fats bound
to the albumin makes the albumin more
lipophilic, fat-loving, and molecules are taken
up into cells--especially brain cells--according
to their solubility in fats. For fatty molecules,
there is no "blood brain barrier.'"' The fact that
albumin has variable lipophilicity makes it an
effective mechanism for the transport and delivery
of oil soluble molecules.

Yaffe, et al., in associating depression and
osteoporosis with dementia, are arguing that estro-
gen deficiency is the cause of all three conditions.
They offer some hypothetical] mechanisms for how
estrogen might prevent Alzheimer's disease.
Observing that brain cells die in people with
Alzheimer's disease, they mention that estrogen
stimulates "dendritic sprouting” in brain cells, as if
that could compensate for the loss of cells (it
doesn't). They observe that estrogen delivers more
tryptophan to the brain, increasing the production
of serotonin, and that it inhibits the monoamine
oxidases and other enzymes that inactivate trans-
mitter substances, increasing the activity of
adrenaline, serotonin, and other transmitter
substances. They suggest that increased circula-
tion caused by estrogen might protect the brain.
Here, Yaffe, et al., have invoked the serotonin
myth and other myths, including the nitric
oxide myth, to substantiate the estrogen myth.

Serotonin doesn't "cure depression," and both
serotonin and nitric oxide impair circulation and
are toxic to brain cells. Both of them poison
mitochondrial respiration. Estrogen increases the
viscosity of blood, and impairs circulation and
oxygenation in many other ways.

The actual level of estrogen rises all through
the reproductive years, and at menopause, the
reduction in antiestrogenic factors, such as
progesterone, thyroid, and DHEA, leads to
increased effects of estrogen. The increased
burden of unsaturated fatty acids that accumulate
with aging clearly promotes the effects of estrogen
and interferes with the production of the antiestro-
genic hormones. These unsaturated fats cause
progressive slowing of the metabolic rate, with
particularly sharp decreases around puberty and
menopause. As they interfere with the production
of energy, they tend to increase cellular energy
requirements, by promoting excitatory cellular
processes.

Estrogen and PUFA create insulin resistance,
and the resulting state of "diabetes" and stress
de-energizes tissues, with the mitochondria that
are damaged by unsaturated fatty acids, nitric
oxide, tumor necrosis factor (TNT), serotonin,
etc., failing to meet the tissues’ energy needs.
Stress, endotoxinemia, and increased estrogen
tend to activate TNF, which has a role in brain
degenerative diseases and osteoporosis and multi-
ple organ failure. Much research has focussed on
a search for a single substance that is responsible
for the inflammatory conditions of Alzheimer's
disease, but inflammation and aging are processes
that involve many causes and mediators, with
each individual’s history causing variations in the
details. ,

"Diabetes," or the inability to oxidize glucose
vigorously, is simply a description of the
metabolic aspect of cellular degeneration. The
neurological impairment that is so commonly
associated with officially diagnosed diabetes is
simply one aspect of a general cellular malfunc-
tion that follows from chronic energy deprivation.
Exactly the same processes occur in the sudden
organ failure produced by shock, or the gradual
organ failures--lungs, liver, kidney, heart, thymus,
brain--that oceur in aging. In general, there is a
failure of circulation that exacerbates the
metabolic and functional failures.

Diabetes, of both the insulin dependent and
the non-insulin dependent types, is commonly
associated with increased cortisol. In diabetes,
inflammatory conditions, and under the influence

of increased cortisol, brain cells are deprived of
glucose.

Increased cortisol is a normal response to the
cell-damaging effects of stress or inflammation,
but cortisol itself causes the death of nerve cells
and immune cells through excitotoxicity, by
blocking glucose metabolism. Estrogen increases
cortisol production in a variety of ways, acting
both through the pituitary and directly on the
adrenal glands. Estrogen promotes excitotoxic
processes, by opposing progesterone and thyroid,
by directly exciting nerve cells, and by increasing
the activity of excitatory nerve transmitters. It
also increases serotonin, which blocks energy
production by its effect on mitochondria, as well
as by impairing circulation..

At puberty, there is a sudden increase in the
incidence of depression, especially in girls.
Increased adrenaline, like increased cortisol, is a
feature of depression, stress, and inflammation;
mobilizing fats, it can become part of a vicious
circle, in which free fatty acids cause insulin resis-
tance, activating the stress reactions. Increased
serotonin is a feature of inflammation, shock,
stress, and depression, and, like histamine, is tied
very closely to estrogen's effects.

Estrogen does have some of the effects
mention by Yaffe, et al., but these effects should
make a person wonder whether estrogen isn't an
important factor in the development of
Alzheimer's disease, rather than being its main
preventive agent.

In Alzheimer's disease, there is a distinct
decrease in blood pressure, and orthostatic
hypotension is a common feature of dementia.
Estrogen's relaxing effect on the blood vessels has
been shown to allow blood pooling in the veins,
producing orthostatic hypotension. Estrogen,
acting directly and through mediators such as
serotonin, decreases the heart's pumping
efficiency.

Blood viscosity is increased in Alzheimer's
disease, and estrogen is known to increase blood
viscosity.

Nitric oxide, a third cultic substance along
with serotonin and estrogen, is invoked as a
normalizer of brain circulation and protector of
nerve cells from peroxidation. Whether a

substance is an antioxidant or pro-oxidant
depends on its environment, and both nitric oxide
and estrogen are pro-oxidants, promoters of lipid
peroxidation and other forms of cell damage,
under a variety of physiological situations.

If authors are criticizing a well known
doctrine, it is reasonable for them to assume that
their readers know the arguments in favor of that
doctrine, and to concentrate on their critical
points. But Yaffe, et al., are arguing in favor of a
well known doctrine. They fail to present the
actual research situation. For them to ignore the
work of people like Brawer, Desjardins, Schipper,
and Liehr, who have explored the cytotoxic and
neurotoxic effects of estrogen, amounts to simple
propaganda. When such material is published in
the mass media, such as JAMA, its effect can be
considered as equivalent to fraud, since these
media don't publicize alternative views.

While there has been some publicity about a
recent study that found that treating Alzheimer's
patients with estrogen for 12 weeks didn't
improve their mood or mental ability, there has
been relative silence about all the studies that
show actual deterioration of mentality or mood in
association with increased estrogen.

In old men, higher estrogen was found to be
associated with lower mental ability (Barret-
Connor, et al., 1999). Although estradiol is the
most potent estrogen, estrone is the main estrogen
in the circulation in terms of its quantity, and
women's mental performance was found to be
lower when the estrone was higher (Yaffe, et al.,
1998).

Antiendorphin, antiexcitotoxic, anticholiner-
gic, antiserotonergic, antiprostaglandin, and
antiglucocorticoid drugs have been used with
good effect in various degenerative nervous
diseases, but all the so-called "anti" drugs are
imprecise antagonists, and have many side effects.
The natural antagonists and nutrients are usually
helpful. Protein, sodium, magnesium, carbon
dioxide/bicarbonate, progesterone, _ thyroid,
vitamins, etc., can be curative in many brain
diseases, but are seldom tried because of cultic
medical ideas about nutrition, hormone tests, and
the nature of cells and disease.

To the extent that unsaturated fats, heavy
metals, and estrogenic substances (such as
soybean products; tofu, for example, was recently
implicated in dementia) can be avoided, the inter-
active processes of cell damage can be retarded.
Natural restorative processes can maintain tissue
integrity if the destructive processes are slowed.

REFERENCES

Neurology 2000 Jun 13;54(11):2061-6. Effects of
estrogen on cognition, mood, and cerebral blood
flow in AD: a controlled study. Wang PN, Liao SQ,
Liu RS, Liu CY, Chao HT, Lu SR, Yu HY, Wang SJ,
Liu HC. "CONCLUSION: A 1.25-mg/day dose of
Premarin administered for 12 consecutive weeks does
not produce a meaningful effect on cognitive perform-
ance, dementia severity, behavior, mood, and cerebral
perfusion in female AD patients. Because estrogen
therapy has been suspected of yielding adverse effects,
and its therapeutic effectiveness is in doubt, additional
evaluation of its role in AD treatment ought to be
conducted."

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1999 Oct;84(10):3681-5.
Endogenous sex hormones and cognitive function
in older men. Barrett-Connor E, Goodman-Gruen D,
Patay B. ."In age- and education-adjusted analyses,
men with higher levels of total and bioavailable
estradiol had poorer scores on the BIMC Test and
Mini-Mental State Examination. Men with higher
levels of bioavailable testosterone had better scores on
the BIMC Test and the Selective Reminding Test
(long-term storage)." "All associations were relatively
weak but independent of age, education, body mass
index, alcohol use, cigarette smoking and depression.
In these older men, low estradiol and high testos-
terone levels predicted better performance on
several tests of cognitive function. Linear and
nonlinear associations were also found, suggesting
that an optimal level of sex hormones may exist for
some cognitive functions."

J Am Geriatr Soc 1998 Jul;46(7):816-21.
Serum estrogen levels, cognitive performance,
and risk of cognitive decline in older commu-
nity women. Yaffe K, Grady D, Pressman A,
Cummings S. "Women in the higher estrone
quartiles had 15% lower (worse) scores on
Digit Symbol compared with the lower quartiles
(P=.004) but there was no difference by quartile
on the modified MMSE or on Trails B. Cognitive

function test scores declined over the 5 years ot |
follow-up. There was no difference in amount of
change by quartile of estradiol, but women in the
higher estrone quartiles had greater reduction
of scores on Trails B compared with those in
the lower quartiles (P=.012), even after adjust-
ing for age, education, depression, stroke
history, weight, and change in weight since age
50. The age-adjusted odds of cognitive decline
(defined as tenth percentile of women with the
largest decline in cognitive performance) did not
vary across quartile of estrone or estradiol.
CONCLUSIONS: Endogenous estrogens are not
associated consistently with cognitive perform-
ance or risk of cognitive decline on a selected
battery of cognitive tests in older community-
dwelling women. Worse performance on two
cognitive tests among women with higher
estrone levels was surprising and warrants
further investigation."

FEBS Lett 1999 Dec 24;464(1-2):97-101. The
participation of pyridine nucleotides redox state
and reactive oxygen in the fatty acid-induced
permeability transition in rat liver mitochondria.
Catisti R, Vercesi AE. "Here, we have compared the
PTP opening ability of arachidonic acid (AA) with
that of carbonyl cyanide-p- rifluoromethoxyphenylhy-
drazone (FCCP) at concentrations that cause similar
quantitative dissipation of the membrane potential
(DeltaPsi) in Ca(2+)-loaded rat liver mitochondria
respiring on succinate." "This second phase of
DeltaPsi dissipation could also be prevented by
rotenone or NAD(P)H-linked substrates which
decrease the pyridine nucleotide (PN) oxidation that
follows the stimulation of oxygen consumption
induced by AA or FCCP. These results suggest that,
under the experimental conditions used here, the PTP
opening induced by AA or FCCP was a consequence
of PN oxidation. Exogenous catalase also inhibited
both AA- and FCCP-induced PTP opening. These
results indicate that a condition of oxidative stress
associated with the oxidized state of PN underlies
membrane protein thiol oxidation and PTP opening.”

FEBS Lett 2000 Jul 28;478(1-2):29-33. The
redox state of endogenous pyridine nucleotides can
determine both the degree of mitochondrial oxida-
tive stress and the solute selectivity of the perme-
ability transition pore. Zago EB, Castilho RF,
Vercesi AE. "We propose that the shift from a low to
a high conductance state of the PTP can be promoted

by the oxidation of NADPH. This impairs the antioxi-
dant function of the glutathione reductase/peroxidase
system, strongly strengthening the state of mitochon-
drial oxidative stress."

J Neurosci Res 2000 Sep 1;61(5):570-575.
Endogenous generation of cyanide in neuronal
tissue: Involvement of a peroxidase system.
Gunasekar PG, Borowitz JL, Turek JJ, Van Horn DA,
Isom GE.

Biochem Mol Med 1995 Feb;54(1):1-11.
Proposed role for a combination of citric acid and
ascorbic acid in the production of dietary iron
overload: a fundamental cause of disease. Crawford
RD. "This paper presents a review of the significant
body of literature liking dietary iron overload, not
only to heart disease, but also to cancer, diabetes,
osteoporosis, arthritis, and possibly other
disorders."

Cancer Res 1995 Apr 15;55(8):1664-9. Effect of
estrogen withdrawal on energy-rich phosphates
and prediction of estrogen dependence monitored
by in vivo 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy of
four human breast cancer xenografts. Kristensen
CA, Kristjansen PE, Brunner N, Clarke R, Spang-
Thomsen M, Quistorff B. "Estrogen withdrawal
induced a significant increase in the nucleoside
triphosphate:Pi ratio in the two estrogen-
dependent xenografts, whereas this ratio remained
unchanged in the estrogen-independent tumors."
[Tumor growth was inhibited, and the ATP increased. ]

Carcinogenesis 1998 Jul; = 19(7):1285-90,
Enhancement of estrogen-induced renal tumorige-
nesis in hamsters by dietary iron. Wyllie S, Liehr
JG. Iron participates in the generation of hydroxyl
radicals by the iron-catalyzed Fenton reaction. Its role
in estrogen-induced carcinogenesis has been examined
in this study by investigating the effects of iran
content of hamster diets on tumor induction by estra-
diol. The renal tumor incidence and number of tumor
nodules in hamsters treated with estradiol plus a diet
enriched with iron (384 p.p.m. Fe as ferric citrate) for
5 months were 2- and 4-fold higher, respectively, than
those observed in animals on an iron-poor diet plus
estradiol (3.9 p.p.m. Fe, as ferric citrate). Tumor
incidence and number of tumor nodules in estradiol-
treated hamsters on the iron-deficient diet were not
different from those of animals on a normal rodent
chow. No tumors were detected in hamsters treated
only with the low or high iron diets. Total serum iron
was significantly increased in animals treated with the
high iron diet plus estradiol compared with the low
iron diet plus estradiol group and the high and low

iron controls. Estrogen treatment increased non-heme
iron in liver of both high and low iron treatment
groups and in kidney of the hamsters on the low iron
diet. It is concluded that dietary iron enrichment
enhances the incidence and severity of estrogen-
induced tumor induction.

Annu Rev Nutr 1997;17:37-50. Toxic and essen-
tial meta] interactions. Goyer RA. Cadmium, lead,
mercury, and aluminum are toxic metals that may
interact metabolically with nutritionally essential
metals. Jron deficiency increases absorption of
cadmium, lead, and aluminum. Lead interacts with
calcium in the nervous system to impair cognitive
development. Cadmium and aluminum interact with
calcium in the skeletal system to produce osteodystro-
phies. Lead replaces zinc on heme enzymes and
cadmium replaces zinc on metallothionein. Selenium
protects from mercury and methylmercury toxicity.
Aluminum interacts with calcium in bone and kidneys,
resulting in aluminum osteodystrophy. Calcium
deficiency along with low dietary magnesium may
contribute to aluminum-induced degenerative
nervous disease.

Mech Ageing Dev 1998 May 1;102(1):1-13. Iron
accumulation in aging: modulation by dietary
restriction. Cook CI, Yu BP. "Male Fischer 344 rats
fed ad libitum or dietary restricted (maintained on
60% of ad libitum food intake) were sacrificed at 6,
12 and 24 months of age." "Tissue total iron content
was shown to increase significantly with age in
animals fed ad libitum (AL). At 24 months, these
animals showed comparable iron content increases in
the liver and kidney, but were significantly greater
than measurements found in brain. This age-related
iron accumulation, however, was found to be
markedly suppressed by dietary restriction (DR) in all
tissues. Similarly, LPO measurements increased in an
age-related, tissue-specific fashion. At 24 months of
age, measurements of LPO in AL rats brain and
liver exceeded measurements in kidney. Again, we
found DR to markedly suppress age-related LPO
in all tissues. Reported here are our findings on the
ability of DR to modulate iron status at the tissue
level. Consistent with the proposed anti-oxidative
mechanism of DR, these findings further suggest that
the modulation of tissue total iron content is an impor-
tant component of that mechanism.

Age 17(3), 93-97, 1994. Modification of
age-related alterations of iron, ferritin, and lipid
peroxidation in rat serum. Choi, JH and Yu, BP.

