Homeopathy, Contnued from Page 27.

of the doctor and his staff in eliciting com-
prehensive and complete information from the
patient. Any expenience—physical, emotional,
or mental—piays a part in the heaith condition.
The individual's history constitutes important
information, not just physical ills but also liv-
ing circumstances.

A well-organized patient who prepares infor-
mation prior to arriving at the doctor's office,
and a well-trained staff that ensures the infor-
mation is complete, will enable the doctor to
spend his dime with the patient elucidating the
nuances and subtleties that will help him
match the conditions observed in the ill patient
with those given in homeopathic references as
caused by particular substances

The fundamental references for this
matching process are the repertory and the
materia medica. The repertory follows a for-
mat that lists parts of the body and the symp-
toms associated with them. plus descriptions
of mental and emotional states With each
observed condition appears the name of one
or more homeopathic medicines known to
cause those symptoms in a healthy person. The
physician then proceeds to list the names of
relevant medicines associated with each symp-
tom until he has collected a comprehensive
profile of as many of the patient's symptoms
as possible. Then, he must observe which of
the homeopathic medicines occur most fre-
quently, and use his intuition to select the
medicine most likely to act as the similimum
to the person's condition.

Generally, this methodical approach approx-
imates the ideal more than the average work
up fora patient. After all, there are more than
2000 homeopathic medicines! It is usually
followed in its entirety oniy with chronic con-
ditions, rather than acute. For acute conditions.
a number of medicines will share common
symptoms and are known as “‘polycrests’’
These will encourage the body and accelerate
the cessation of discomforting symptoms What
ls best about the homeopathic alternative: no
side effects and no sense of ‘‘drugging:"

Homeopathic medicines marketed as “‘com-
binations” are available in health/natural food
stores Generally, the bottle carries a label for
a particular symptom picture, such as sore
throat, varicose veins etc.. and consists of a
group of polycrests. sometimes up to six
together and always in low potency. Higher
potencies usually come into play when the
symptom picture is clear and the similimum
seems apparent.

The other fundamental reference for the
physician's use is the matena medica. This type
reference lists the medicine, or substance, and
the symptoms associated with its action in a
healthy person. It is the documentation of the
“provings” described above. In fact, the
materia medica serves as the basis for the
repertory, along with the clinical experiences
of the compiling physician.

How to get started?

Currently, no accredited medical schools of-
fer courses in homeopathy. However, a number
of institutions and individuals do offer courses
for physicians that can enable them to intro-
duce homeopathic techniques and medicines
into practice on a gradual, progressive basis.
In addition, many good books written by prac-
titioners for practitioners exist.

For further information on what to read and
on study opportunities contact: United States
Homeopathic Association: 5305 Lee Highway;
Ariington, VA 22207; (703) 524-2600

Reprinted inmm AMERICAN HOMEOPATHY

Consumer Edition, February, 1984

Immunitu, Hormones

and Yeast Infections

by Ray Peat, Ray Peat'’s Newsletter

In understanding candidiasis, two things,
related to each other, are of special impor-
tance: the involvement of the endocrine
system, and the suppression of natural immuni-
ty. Similar endocrine and immune problems
can occur in other situations: cancer, aging,
viral infections, and chemical! poisoning.
Damaged cellular respiration appears to be the
common mechanism, A skin test, using Can-
dida antigen, based on the universal exposure
and acquired immune reactivity to it, shows
a similar lack of response in both systemic can-
didiasis patients and in cancer patients In a
study of cancer patients, nutritional sup-
plementation increased skin reactivity and sur-
vival According to R.A. Cox, anergy of the cell-
mediated immunity and a T-cell deficiency are
found in chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis.
In 1860, Trousseau said that candidiasis is “the
local expression of a very bad state of the
whole system"’ Similar observations have been
made regarding cancer and tuberculosis

Thyroid, progesterone _
and pregnenolone help
to normalize blood sugar
by improving respiration,
and should be the basic
treatment for allergies.

Another surprising similanty between can-
didiasis and cancer is that the antibody reac-
tion might be harmful. rather than heipful. Ac-
cording to Diamond, “high levels of specific an-
tifungal antibodies may sometimes block or in-
hibit the development of ceil-mediated im-
munity to mycoses!”

Simplified ideas of the immune system were
fostered by the success of vaccination against
certain diseases and by the preference of most
researchers for clearly defined single-level
mechanisms. Influences from the environment.
nutrition, hormones, and biological rhythms
make the problem more complex, but few peo-
ple have recognized the importance of non-
specific immunity and the organism's general]
resistance. Early in this century, light therapy
was recognized to be effective for wberculosis.
Coley’s toxins were another early and suc-
cessful attempt Lo stimulate the immune
system, W.F. Koch, working in Gomberg's lab
with free radicals, postulated that free radical
oxidation was central to natuml resistance lo
infection and cancer Similar ideas were
developed by Albert Szent-Gyorgy). and many
others contnbuted supporting evidence for the
importance of respiration in resistance toe
disease—Otto Warburg. Max Gerson. and Broda
Bames. for example

The two hormones, estrogen and cortisone,
are associated with stress, with respiratory
changes and with changes in the immune
system.

A recent review article by C.J. Grossman
(Science, Nov. 30, 1984) outlines the effects of
estrogen on the immune system. Estrogen
causes atrophy of the thymus and depresses
the circulating levels of thymosin alpha one:
when estrogen is given to castrated rats, their
serum has “a marked inhibitory effect on T-
cell function’ and “estrogen and androgen act
mainly to suppress the cell-mediated immune
system.” Estrogen increases antibody produc-
tion, which is not necessarily helpful in con-
ditions such as candidiasis and cancer Estrogen
retards skin graft rejection, and this probably
indicates how parasites will be handled.

An especially important effect of estrogen
is its reduction of the amount of IgA antibody
secreted at membranes—this is very likely to
be the reason for the high incidence of vaginal
yeast infections premenstrually and during
pregnancy. Thyroid and progesterone both in-
crease the secretion of IgA. and these hor-
mones are frequently deficient premenstrual-
ly and in pregnancy.

Allergy and epilepsy consist of hyperactivi-
ly of, respectively, immune cells and nerve
cells. Low cellular energy, caused by hypogly-
cemia or hypoxia, causes hyperactivity of any
cell type; the easiest way to observe this
phenomenon is in the delayed relaxation of a
hypothyroid person's Achilles reflex, or a
delayed repolarization wave in the electrocar-
diogram. Estrogen interferes with cellular
energy in many ways, including a contribution
to hypoxia by impairing oxygen absorption
Thyroid. progesterone. and pregnenolone help
to normalize biood sugar by improving respira-
tion, and should be the basic treatment for
allergies. ¢

Some fungi have been found to respond to
the human sex steroids, estrogen and
testosterone, and there is evidence for a cor-
ticosteroid receptor in Candida (D.S. Loose, et
al.) suggesting that the yeast produces and
responds to a hormone resembling cortisone
Estradiol, the most powerful human estrogen.
has been extracted from a yeast (A. Burshell.
et al, 1984).

For many years male beer drinkers have
been known to develop breasts Since liver
damage causes abnormal! amounts of estrogen
to be produced and retained, the alcohol was
blamed, but in the last year, enough estrogen
was found in beer and wine to account for the
condition, independently of any alcohol
damage to the liver. Bread was also found to
contain significant amounts of estrogen. from
the veast, (The increased rate of cancer which
has been observed in beer drinkers nught have
something to do with estrogen. It would be ir
teresting to compare the cancer incidence
among bread eaters with the incidence tn peo
ple who eat tortillas pasta. or potatoes}

Continued an Page 2)
| Immunity, Continued from Page 273

Since early in this century, brewers’ yeast
was used for treating diabetes The pancreas
has an estrogen receptor, and estrogen pro-
motes insulin secretion. Since reading of
yeasts’ responsiveness to sex hormones, about
15 years ago, I have encouraged people to use
liver when they need a vitamin-mineral sup-
plement, and to restrict the use of brewers’
yeast mainly to the treatment of diabetes

Besides people who are debilitated from star-
vation, drug treatment, or old age, the main
groups who have a high incidence of Candida
infection are diabetics, pregnant women, and
premenstrual women. Rosalinde Hurley lists
susceptible conditions, including infancy,
severe infections leukemia and other defects
in cell-mediated Immunity, and endocrine
disease; she also mentions that the unhealthy
skin near ulcers is often colonized by Candida.

A high glucose concentration in body fluids
would be an obvious factor in diabetics, and
in some pregnant women, but blood sugar
tends to be low premenstrually. Many diabetics
have high levels of cortisone, and some women
do in pregnancy or premenstrually, but the
consistent feature of pregnancy and the
premenstrual part of the cycie is an increased
production of the sex steroids.

Since progesterone used to be called the
“Juteal hormone;’ many doctors have wrong-
ly associated it with many premenstrual
events, including water retention. Most
medical textbooks make the same mistake. The
corpus luteum secretes both estrogen and pro-
gesterone, and when the person is under stress,
progesterone production fails, while estrogen
secretion continues. Progesterone deficiency
and estrogen excess very often occur in the
“Juteal phase!’ premenstrualiy, and in pregnan-
cy, and at menopause, with symptoms such as
edema, emotional disturbances, blood clotting
problems and allergy symptoms. | think this
misconception, that progesterone is “the lutesl
phase hormone; rather than the often defi-
cient protective hormone, is what caused Dr.
‘Truss to warn against its use in candidiasis pa-
Uents. (Since most doctors prescribe synthetic
progestins, with estrogenic and androgenic side
effects instead of natural progesterone, Truss’s
warning has probably helped some women to
escape that maltreatment.) Because of its ef-
fects on IgA, on blood sugar and the allergic
reaction, and on the body's response Lo stress,
natural progesterone would seem to be one of
the most useful materials in treating
candidiasis.

In the fungi which respond to the human sex
steroids, these hormones function as sex hor-
mones or as sex pheromones—they attract the
appropriate cell type, while causing changes
im the cells which prepare them for
conjugation.

In cell culture, virulent strains of Candida
were found to adhere to cells from human
membranes while non-virulent strains didn't
adhere. Also, the virulent forms of yeast
adhered to cells taken from some people, and
didn’t stick to cells from other people. Even in
vitro, vaginal epithelial cells were more attrac-
tive Lo Candida—more yeasts adhered—when
cells were from diabetics, pregnant women, or
women near menstmation. This strongly sug-
gests that glucose is not the regulating factor,
since the glucose would be standardized in the
culture fluid. More likely factors are estrogen,
cortisone, the absence of an iron binding pro-
tein, or of bound antibodies: hypoxia causes
increased cellular concentration of free fauy
acids so this is another possible factor

The obvious next experiment will be to
pretreat both yeast and donor cells with
estrogens and other hormones including cor-
tisone and testosterone, to see if virulence can
be induced.

Estrogen and cortisone are things which sup-
press the host's immunity, and which appear
to modify the fungus Two other things, which
have interesting connections with estrogen,
can suppress immunity and stimulate yeast
growth: unsaturated fatty acids and excess
iron. Diamond has suggested that the reason
candidiasis often occurs in leukemia ts the high
iron leve! in that disease; others have suggested
that leukemia itself might be caused by an ex-
cess of iron, blocking the immune system. Lron
(and high levels of zine, 1.e., 10mM) stimulate
the formation of mycelia (Hazen and Cutler,
1983).

In a low oxygen environment, unsaturated
fatty acids can stimulate yeast growth (Nes, ef
al, 1984), and they suppress immunity in
various ways

Besides a direct effect on cellular immuni-
ty, unsaturated fatty acids interfere with
thyroid function and with mitochondnai res-
piration, Low thyroid leads to high estrogen.
Estrogen (and low thyroid) cause increased ab-
sorption of iron. At an extreme point. excess
iron disturbs several endocrine glands but at
2 more moderate level. it blocks cellular im-
munity. Combined with unsaturated fatty
acids, iron stimulates peroxidation, with tox-
ic effects, including the formation of carbon
monoxide, inhibiting respiration. Vitamin €
stimulates the absorption of iron, and can also
increase the rate of peroxide formation. In a
special disease of iron retention, idiopathic
hemochromatosis, vitamin C was found not to
increase tron excretion when tested by itself,
though it did increase the effect of a drug call-
ed deferrtoxamine (D. Conte, et at, Acta
Haematol. (Basel) 72(2), 147-120, 1984).

The mitochondria are not only the site of
respiratory energy production, but are where
cholesterol is converted to pregnenolone,
which is then converted to progesterone and
DHEA. These steroids all appear to protect the
respiratory system. This respiratory protection
is probably part of what Selye called the
“catatoxic’’ function, the fact that certain
steroids, especially pregnenolone, protect
organisms against a great variety of poisons

Whether it is an exogenous chemical. or a
poison produced by intestinal organisms, or a
toxic effect of damage to one's own tissue,
which is making a person sick, it would seem
reasonable to use a protective. ‘catatoxic;”
material such as pregnenolone as part of the
supportive therapy. Fiber, oxygen drinks. and
aspirin can protect the bowel.

My first experiments with yeast were with
the Koch reagents, but then I got interested in
testing possible anti-iron substances Caffeine,
I suspect, uses that mechanism, among others.
I have also experimented with essential oils,
clove oti, thymol, and menthol, and elemen-
tal sulfur, which is probably the least toxic
therapy for many fungus infections of the skin,
vagina, and bowel]. Lime-sulfur and other
sulfur mixtures have a long history as
fungicides, Saturated fatty acids generally in-
hibit fungal growth. Short chain acids such as
acetic, lactic, propionic, and caprylic acids have
often been used as anti-fungals and even the
longer chain saturated fatty acids have been
tested.

Large doses of vitamin A and potassium
iodide have been used, separately and tovether

to promote general immunity, and also to treat
fungus infections: | suspect that an effect of
the iodide is to protect against the toxicity of
the unsaturated fatty acids

Thiosuiphate is another form of sulfur that
has been used for skin fungal infections Many
herbal drugs contain quinones and saponins.
which are active against fungi, but which can
be dangerous to the patient. The imidazoles
can be dangerous because they block steroid
synthesis in the patient as well as in the fungus
Nystatin is also believed to act on fungal
steroids, and it can be toxic to the patient, but
it is considered the best treatment for a dead-
ly systemic infection (e.g. lungs heart.
kidneys). Desensitization with Candida vaccine
and treatment with immune rabbit serum are
discussed in R. Dubos's book. Bacterial and
Mycotic Infections of Man. Bone acid (5%), an-
tihistamines. and many other chemicals have
some anti-fungal activity, but except for sulfur,
I think the best approach is to optimize the pa-
tient's resistance.
Ray Peat's Newsletter, PO. Box 3427, Eugene,
OR 97403.

Chilies Chase

Chills

With a heading “Chilies Chase Chills!’ an ar-
ticle in the February, 1983. American Health
magazine encouraged its readers to eat spicy
food for health enhancement. Dr Imvin Zi-
merit, Professor of Medicine at U.C.L.A,, in-
dicates that by stimulating mucus flow, spices
can help prevent and treat respiratory pro-
blems such as asthma, bronchitis, sinusitis and
colds

Dr Ziment says “The reason most people
with chronic lung disease have problems is
because abnormal mucous secretions get stuck
in the lungs We want to stimulate the lungs
to produce watery secretions to loosen the
mucus in the ainvays:’ Dr Ziment doesn't ad-
dress the potential cause of the excessive
mucus production. which could be attributed
to, among other things. food sensitivity,

It is believed that hot foods irritate the
digestive tract. and cause a reflex increase in
secretions from the nose and lungs “People
who eat spicy foods have less chronic obstruc-
tive lung disease than people who don’: Zi-
ment says He recommends that his patients
with bronchitis eat one spicy meal a day, and
drink lots of water For those with G.I. tracts
that can’t handle such zest, Ziment suggests
gargling a cup of warm water mixed with 10
drops of tabasco sauce!

Aromatic herbs, in general, are believed to
act a8 2 preventative to many ailments by in-
suring more complete assimilation of food
nulrents Ben Charles Harris in Better Health
With Culinary Herbs notes “The herb’s
alkaline salts combine with its aromatic prin-
ciples or volatile oils and work lo conteract the
fat or catarrhal-forming principles of many
foods** He notes that thyme has long been
used in bronchiuis with an age old reputation
10 “dnve forth phlegm? an action confirmed
by the LUS. Dispensatory

