Oral Absorption of Progesterone 2

by Ray Peat, Ph.D.

Since many synthetic progestins are known ta
be Juteolytic,! while progesterone itself exerts
a positive feedback influence on steroidogenic
tissue,* it is clear that it would be useful to
have an effective way to administer progesterone
orally.

It is well known that fat soluble substances
are absorbed primarily by way of the lymphatic
system, entering the general circulation
directly rather than passing first through the
liver’ Progesterone is extremely insoluble in
water, but it is soluble in lipids. If the solution
is stable, it seems clear that the progesterone
will be preferentially absorbed by the
lymphatic route.

1 have investigated the oral use of progesterone
in tocopherol, a non-toxic stable solvent, in
cycling women with a luteal phase deficiency,
and in post-menopausal women.

In younger women who are still producing
large amounts of estrogen, a therapeutically
effective oral dose of 50 mg. to 200 mg. daily
(during the luteal phase of their cycle), was
found to prevent the symptoms associated with
the premenstrual decrease in serum progesterone
which had been observed in previous cycles.
In some women the effective dose caused the
dlood levels to rise somewhat above the levels

VITAMIN

Telephone (203) 583-7773

usually considered norma] for the lutea! phase.

Post-menopausal women, who have much
lower average levels of estrogen and who
produce little progesterone, show much more
clearly the effects of administered progesterone.
Seven women who had gone through “natural”
menopause at least two years previously and
whose serum progesterone was either below
the sensitivity limit of the competitive protein
binding technique, or in the typically low post-
menopausal range of measurement by radio-
immunoassay, were given oral doses of 50 mg.
or 100 mg. of progesterone in tocopherol.

The earliest any blood was drawn, after an
aral dose of progesterone, was 20 minutes; in
this case, the progesterone had risen from 0.2
ng/ml before, to 0.7 ng/ml with a dose of 100
mg When blood was drawn from 4 to 8 hours
after an oral dose of 50 mg. to 100 mg., the
blood levels were between 6 and 16 ng/ml. No
attempt was made to assure that the
progesterone was taken on an empty stomach,
and meals were eaten as usual while waiting
for blood to be drawn. The progesterone was
administered by their regular physicians, and
the measurement was done by commercial
medical laboratories,

In two cases in which blood was drawn 24
hours after a single dose of 100 mg, the
progesterone level was still in the normal luteal
phase range,

Since the observations were made over a
period of several years, with progesterone
measurements made at several different
laboratories and by different techniques, the
numbers aren't strictly camparable. We
recently got a clearer picture of the rate of
absorption in a fasting person. A midcile-aged
man, with a fasting level of 0.2, wok 100 mg
At the first hour the level was already 7.0
ng/ml; the concentration rose each hour to a
peak at the sixth hour of 14.0 ng/ml, and the
last observation, at the seventh hour, was 7.0
ng/mi, On average, men’s livers are quicker to
remove substances from the blood, and the fact
that no food was taken during the test very
likely caused the rate of increase and the rate
of decrease to be greater than in a non-fasting
person.

References

Badawy, S.Z, A., and 1. Marshall. Luteal phase inadequacy
and infertility. Famyly Practice, 1981;6:17A-24A.

2. Rothehild, |. The regulation of the mammalian corpus
huteum. Rec: Progr in Horm. Res, 1981; 37: 183-298.

3. Simmonds, W. J. Absorption of lipids In Gastrointestinal
Phystology (E. D, Jacobson, Editor), page 343.
Butterworths University Park Press Baltimore, 1974,

Ray Peat, Ph.D.

Ray Peat'’s Newsletter
P.O. Box 3427
Eugene, OR 97403

DIAGNOSTICS, Inc.

ROUTE 35 & INDUSTRIAL ORIVE ® CLIFFWOOD BEACH, NEW JERSEY 07735
CONSULTANTS: Drs. H. Baker, O. Frank, S.H. Hutner

OUR ONLY BUSINESS IS VITAMIN DETECTION

WHAT WE DO: Using micro-animals (protozoa) we can now offer you the most accurate, sensitive and specific
methods for vitamin detection in biologic fluids, tissues, and vitamin-containing products. These
methods serve as standards in the field of Clinical Vitaminology, and have been validated by over
30 years of clinical investigations. They have appeared in peer-reviewed journals and are accep-
ted by authorities as the diagnostic methods of choice for Medical Quality Assurance and
scientific support. Studies show protozoan methods are superior to functional analyses for un-
covering hidden and overt vitamin deticits and for monitoring nutritional treatment regimens to
determine their clinical efficacy.

TOTALVITAMIN PANEL: Thiamin, Biotin, Folates, Bie, Bs, Riboflavin, Nicotinates, Pantothenates, Vitamin A, C. E,

and Carotenes (Pro-Vitamin A), Tests for free and total choline, biopterin, inositol, and
carnitine are also available.

REQUIREMENTS: Five lavender-stoppered EDTA-containing vacuum blood collection tubes (7 m! size) for a
TOTAL VITAMIN PANEL. One tube Is needed for 4 single vitamin determination.

CHARGE: TOTAL 12 VITAMIN PANEL: $120, SINGLE VITAMIN TEST: $15. Price does not include

physician's costs.
PHYSICIAN:

Just draw blood and mail to us in a crush-proof container with payment.

CALL OR WRITE FOR BROCHURE, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AND PUBLISHED PAPERS

87

