Ray Peat's Newsletter

Copyright 2003 Ray Peat, PO Box 5764 Eugene, OR 97405 November 2005

Not for republication without written permission.
Thyroiditis. Some confusions
and causes of “autoimmune
diseases”

Girls’ thyroid glands usually enlarge during
puberty, and in pregnancy it’s entirely normal for
the gland to enlarge and to become more active.
Eighty years ago, when iodine deficiency was more
common in the US and Europe, the idea of a
“colloid goiter” was common. In certain regions,
many people had enlarged thyroids that contained a
large amount of colloid--colloid is the viscous
protein (thyroglobulin) solution formed in tiny
compartments in the thyroid gland, which can be
broken down by “digestive” (proteolytic) enzymes
of the cells that have secreted it, forming the
thyroid hormones, and allowing them to be
released into the blood stream. The hormones are
formed as the accumulated protein 1s broken down;
the hormone itself isn’t stored in the gland.

The reason for the enlargement of the gland
during puberty and in pregnancy, and during some
kinds of stress, is that the colloid is formed faster
than it is digested by the thyroid gland and secreted
into the blood. If something, such as an excess of
estrogen, is blocking the production of the thyroid
hormone, the gland is likely to enlarge, because the
pituitary secretes more thyroid — stimulating
hormone (TSH) when there is a deficiency of
thyroid hormone.

in vitro experiments show that estrogen
activates the formation of the colloid, but inhibits
its breakdown into the hormones. Progesterone, on
the other hand, activates the process of proteolytic
digestion and so increases the release of hormones
from the gland, decreasing the accumulation of the
colloid.

Therefore, when progesterone is deficient or
estrogen is present in excess, the colloid tends to
accumulate (even to the point of causing a visible

Injury to the thyroid apparently precedes the
development of “autoimmune thyroiditis.” There
is evidence that tissue injury precedes the
appearance of “autoantibodies” in other condi-
tions, too.

Many people with metabolic problems,
including hypothyroidism, are being told that
they have ‘“‘a genetic disease.” This belief encour-
ages both physicians and their customers to
commit themselves to inappropriate treatments,
and to misinterpret the results of tests.

Eating seaweed or other foods or supple-
ments containing iodine can cause both hypothy-
roidism and thyroiditis. The iodate sometimes
used as an oxidizing agent in breads have proba-
bly contributed to thyroid disease in the indus-
trialized countries.

Dental x-rays, which can cause cancer of the |
thyroid, brain, and eye, certainly have increased
the incidence of thyroiditis and hypothyroidism.
The radioactive isotopes that are often foolishly
used for supposedly “diagnostic” purposes
probably contribute to the incidence and severity
of hypothyroidism and thyroiditis.

Besides iodine, radioactive isotopes, and
x-rays, other environmental toxins, including
mercury and dioxins can cause thyroiditis, but
diet and estrogens are probably the causes of
most thyroid problems. |

A generalized inflammatory state, rather
than specific “autoimmunity,” is responsible for
thyroiditis and other “autoimmune
degenerative” diseases.

A “respiratory defect” is behind the inflam-
matory condition.

Correcting a thyroid deficiency tends to
gradually normalize the antibodies.

enlargement of the gland, a “colloid goiter’), at
the same time that the person may be hypothyroid,
because the hormone isn’t being released from the
stored colloid, into the blood stream. But, largely
because no one wants to suggest that estrogen can
be pathogenic, an enlarged thyroid gland is now
likely to be diagnosed as “Hashimoto’s thyroiditis”
(or Hashimoto’s struma, or goiter, or disease).

Hashimoto's disease is clearly defined as the
infiltration of the gland with lymphocytes,
“causing destruction” of the gland’s active tissue
and leading to hypothyroidism. The only way to
know that the gland is being invaded by large
numbers of lymphocytes is by biopsy, but the
condition is normally diagnosed by pure
guesswork, without any biopsy. Sometimes
“antithyroid antibodies” found in the blood are
used to diagnose Hashimoto’s disease, but the
presence of those antibodies in the blood doesn’t
mean that they originated in the thyroid gland, and
even though they have very specific names (e.g.,
“antithyroglobulin,” “antithyroperoxidase’’) related
to the thyroid gland, they aren’t even specific for
the thyroid gland. It has been suggested that
similarities in molecular structure between thyro-
globulin and connective tissue proteins could
account for the finding of “antithyroid antibodies”
more frequently in rheumatoid arthritis and
Sjogren’s syndrome than in Hashimoto’s
disease and Graves’ disease (Ruggeri, et al,
2002).

In the last 60 years, most of estrogen’s toxic
effects have been hushed up by the drug industry,
and estrogen’s central antirespiratory and antithy-
roid actions are unknown to most contemporary
endocrinologists. But endocrinologists often do
know that estrogen causes the thymus gland to
atrophy, and that the thymus gland is intimately
involved in maintaining normal immune functions.

The degenerating thymus gland undergoes
invasion by lymphocytes and the replacement of
active tissue by fibrous tissue, under the influence
of estrogen or stress. The process of cellular
invasion in the thyroid gland probably develops
more slowly than that in the thymus, because estro-
gen’s effect on the thymus is very rapid.

The cells that make up the thymus are
extremely varied, but a large portion of them are
able to phagocytize other cells. This self
phagocytosis probably contributes to the gland’s
ability to shrink with such great rapidity. When
other organs are damaged, the removal of debris

can be delayed for days, as phagocytic cells gradu-
ally enter the tissues from the blood stream.

Hypothyroidism is an important cause of
thymic atrophy, and a thyroid supplement can
stimulate regeneration of the thymus.

This correction of the thymic portion of the
“immune system” by the thyroid hormone is
probably involved in the observation that the
“antithyroid” autoantibodies decrease under the
influence of supplemental thyroid hormone, but
the supplement also affects the thyroid gland, by
decreasing the thyroid stimulating hormone, TSH.
Excess production of TSH causes an
inflammation-like stress, that contributes to the
production of the colloid goiter and eventually to
disordered structural changes in the thyroid gland.
A more efficient production and use of thyro-
globulin will decrease the tendency of the over-
stimulated gland to produce a defective globulin
that is antigenic.

So, rather than ignoring the frequency of the
simple colloid goiter and calling everything
“Hashimoto’s autoimmune thyroiditis,” if we look
at the mechanisms involved in the production of
autoantibodies, we will tend to see “thyroiditis”
as, usually, the last stage in the development of a
simple colloid goiter. The autoantibodies. in a
healthy person, are probably part of a corrective
repair process, rather than a simply pathogenic
factor.

There is an almost obligatory medical
genuflection toward “genetic causation” of
disease, and especially of thyroid disease, autoim-
mune disease, and other chronic or degenerative
diseases. The fact that thyroid disease and
autoimmune diseases are from five to ten times
more frequent in women than in men somehow
hasn’t increased medical interest in the patho-
genic role of estrogen, and it doesn’t prevent
platoons of medical researchers from making
claims to have discovered “which chromosome
carries the disease.”

This medical bias means that even the physi-
clans who recognize that hypothyroidism is a
condition that should be corrected are not likely to
believe that it is important to modify the treatment
according to changes in the patient’s condition.
Many doctors assume that a person never recovers

Part of the problem, Lewontin points out, is the
casual way in which geneticists speak. “This is seen
even in the naming of genes,” he notes. “Geneticists
speak casuaily of the ‘gene for white eyes’, but of
course, there is no such gene. There is a variety of
genes whose reading by the cell is proximally involved
in the production of eye pigment and its deposition in
the eye cells.” He points out that genes are said to be

“self-replicating,”” engaged in “gene action”, “make”
proteins and are “turned on “ or “off? by regulatory
DNA, “But none of this is true... DNA is among the
most inert and non-reactive of organic molecules,” he

writes. S.W. Samuels, in Genes, Ethics & Environ-
ment!, an internet public policy journal. Vell, No. I
October, 2000

from thyroiditis, but the evidence is clear that
simply giving supplementary thyroid usually
gradually corrects the problem. If other protective
measures are taken, recovery will be quicker and
more complete. When the diet is optimal, the TSH
is likely to be “abnormally low,” below 1.0 on the
standard scale, even without use of a thyroid
supplement. Keeping the level of TSH low contrib-
utes to the reduction of the generalized inflamma-
tory state that characterizes hypothyroidism and
autoimmunity. TSH should be considered to be one
of the stress-related pro-inflammatory  anti-
respiratory hormones, along with serotonin, hista-
mine, estrogen, parathyroid hormone, and
prolactin.

The diet should be relatively free of antithyroid
foods, especially legumes and polyunsaturated fats,
and the foods of the cabbage family, such as
broccoli, should be well cooked, and used no more
often than once a week. The polyunsaturated fats
interfere with the thyroid hormone, disturb the
thymus and other immune functions, and increase
the antigenicity of tissues.

A high protein diet, of about 100 grams of
good protein daily, is protective, and protein
deficiency is a common cause of hypothyroidism.
But too much emphasis on the muscle meats,
including fish fillets, chicken breast or legs, and
the usual steaks and chops, can be antithyroid by
providing too much tryptophan. That can be offset
by using gelatin liberally (chicken soup and ox-tail
soup contain lots of gelatin from the bones and
connective tissues), because gelatin contains no
tryptophan. Whey, which is sold as a protein
supplement, and egg whites contain too much

tryptophan, and can be antithyroid if used
excessively.

Using large amounts of seaweed can cause
hypothyroidism and can injure the thyroid cells,
contributing to thyroiditis. Seaweed and other
iodine-containing food supplements are often sold
to improve thyroid function, but they usually have
the opposite effect. An iodine deficiency used to
cause goiters in some regions, but in the last 50
years most people in the US and Europe have been

getting an excessive amount of iodine.

“We can recall when a TSH of 7.0 or below was
considered normal. Years later, the TSH cutoff
was 6.4, meaning that anything below that level
was considered normal. Still later, the cutoff was
moved to 5.5. Now, some labs are reporting a
level of 4.2 as being the cutoff level, above which
the patient may be hypothyroid.” “‘...at our clinic,
a TSH over 3 is considered suspicious...” (p. 75)

“Some doctors prefer the lower limit of a
corrected TSH to be 1.0. Others are comfortable
with a TSH of 0.5. Some thyroid specialists at the
Universtiy of California Medical Center in San
Francisco like to see the corrected level around
0.2. (slightly below the normal range of 0.4-5.0}.
That figure is generally considered by many
nonuniversity doctors to be too low, suggesting to
them that the patient is on too much thyroid
medication.

“At our clinic, we have patients who do not feel
well until they take enough medication to lower
their TSH level to 0.1.” (Page 79) R.L. Shames
and K.H. Shames, Thyroid Power, 2001.

Endotoxin or other material absorbed from
intestinal bacteria contributes to a variety of
autolmmune problems, including — thyroiditis
(Penhale and Young, 1988). Combining an
indigestible fiber, such as raw carrot, with mild
germicides, such as vinegar and coconut oil, can
improve the hormonal environment, while reduc-
ing the immunological burden.

Adequate light is another important factor in
maintaining a high energy respiratory state and
preventing the whole complex of inflammatory,
autoimmune, degenerative diseases.

———__———<_

REFERENCES

Clin Exp Rheumatol 2002 Jul-Aug;20(4):565-8. Endocrine
autoimmunity in young patients with juvenile chronic arthritis.
Alpigiani MG, Cerboni M, Bertini I, d'Annunzio G, Haupt R, lester
A, Lorini R. “The aim of our study was to investigate the coexis-
tence of autoimmune diseases (autoimmune thyroid disease and
type I diabetes mellitus, T1DM) in patients affected by Juvenile
Chronic Arthritis (JCA).” “Our study showed that anfi-thyroid
autoantibody frequency (9/66, 14%) was higher in JCA than in
the general population, while T1DM markers (islet autoantibodies
and genetic markers) were not frequent.”

Science 1985 Oct 18;230(4723):325-7. Induction of autoim-
mune thyroiditis in chickens by dietary iodine. Bagchi N, Brown
TR, Urdanivia E, Sundick RS. “In this study, different amounts of
potassium iodide were added to the diets of chicken strains known
to be genetically susceptible to autoimmune thyroiditis. Administra-
tion of iodine during the first 10 weeks of life increased the
incidence of the disease...” “Further support for the relation
between iodine and autoimmune thyroiditis was provided by an
experiment in which iodine-deficient regimens decreased the
incidence of thyroid autoantibodies in a highly susceptible strain.
These results suggest that excessive consumption of jodine in the
United States may be responsible for the increased incidence of
autoimmune thyroiditis.”

J Ment Defic Res 1991 Dec;35 ( Pt 6):512-20. Effect of
thyroid stimulating hormone on adaptive behaviour in Down's
syndrome. Bhaumik S, Collacott RA, Garrick P, Mitchell C. “Both
hypothyroidism and Alzheimer’s disease may be associated with
elevated serum concentrations of thyroid stimulating hormone.”
“The actual concentrations of thyroid stimulating hormone were
shown to be significantly and inversely correlated with scores of
global abilities.”

Clin Endocrinol (Oxf) 1989 Oct;31(4):453-65. Thyroid
autoimmunity in endemic goitre caused by excessive iodine
intake. Boyages SC, Bloot AM, Maberly GF. Eastman CJ, Li M,
Qian QD, Liu DR, van der Gaag RD. Drexhage HA. “By interact-
ing with the immune system, iodine excess may trigger the develop-
ment of autoimmune thyroid disease such as lymphocytic Hashi-
moto's thyroiditis (LT).” “Affinity chromatographically purified IgG
was tested for thyroid growth-stimulating activity (TGI) by two
different methods....” “Thyroid growth-stimulating immunoglobu-
lins (TGI) were the major autoantibodies found in children with
goitres caused by iodine excess. In the CBA, 12 of 20 (60%)
goitrous children and 0 of 12 (0% P less than 0.05) healthy children
were positive for TGI.” “We conclude that endemic iodine goitre 1s
not associated with Hashimoto's lymphocytic thyroiditis. Neverthe-
less, autoimmune growth factors such as TGI may play a primary
role in the pathogenesis of thyroid growth in this condition.”

J Endocrinol Invest 1993 May;16(5):384-91. Thyroid autoim-
munity and female gender. Chiovato L, Lapi P, Fiore E,
Tonacchera M, Pinchera A.

Br J Psychiatry 1987 May;150:674-81. Characteristic plasma
hormone changes in Alzheimer's disease. Christie JE, Whalley LJ,
Bennie J, Dick H, Blackburn IM, Blackwood DH, Fink G. “A
systematic endocrine investigation in dementia, depression and
control subjects showed that plasma growth hormone (GH) was
higher in the morning and plasma TSH concentrations were
higher throughout the day in Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD)
than in age-matched depressed patients (MDD), and plasma
TSH concentrations were also higher throughout the day in
female ATD compared with age-matched female control subjects.
The increased plasma TSH concentrations could not be due to

reduced negative feedback because plasma T3, T4 and rT3 were
in the normal range.”

Acta Cytol 1997 Jul-Aug;41(4 Suppl):1369-72. Aspiratian
cytology of 131]-induced thyroiditis. A case repart. de la Roza
GL, Burke KC, Dumler JS, Aisner SC. “Although 1317 may induce
morphologic changes similar to those associated with external
radiation, a known diagnostic pitfall, the cytology literature on the
subject is very sparse. This case exemplifies the thyroid cytologic
changes associated with 131[ exposure.” “Review of the eytalogic
sample revealed follicular cells with focal, marked cytologic atypia,
abundant colloid, stromal fragments, and lymphocytes.”

Clin Endocrinol (Oxf) 1991 Jul;35(1):93-6. Assocation
between autoimmune thyraid disease and familial Alzhejmer's
disease. Ewins DL, Rossor MN, Butler J, Roques PK, Mullan MJ,
McGregor AM. “This study demonstrates a very high prevalence of
autoimmune thyroid disease in Familia] Alzheimer’s Disease
kindreds ...."

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2002 Apr;87(4):1687-91. Selenium
supplementation in patients with autoimmune thyrolditis
decreases thyroid peroxidase antibodies concentrations. Gartner
R, Gasnier BC, Dietrich JW, Krebs B, Angstwurm MW, “In areas
with severe selenium deficiency there is a higher incidence of
thyroiditis due to a decreased activity of selenium-dependent
glutathione peroxidase activity within thyroid cells. Selenium-
dependent enzymes also have several modifying effects on the
immune system. Therefore, even mild selentum deficiency may
contribute to the development and maintenance of autoimmune
thyroid diseases.” “We conclude that selentum substitution may
improve the inflammatory activity in patients with autoimmune
thyroiditis, especially in those with high activity.”

Panminerva Med 1996 Mar;38(1):61-3. Relationship between
autoimmune thyroid disease and Alzheimer's disease. Genovesi
G, Paolini P, Marcellini L, Vernillo E, Salvati G, Polidori G, Ricci-
ardi D, de Nuccio I. “As compared to 30 non-demented controls.
AD subjects showed a significant increase in the mean values of
antithyroglobulin (TgAb) and antimicrosomial (MCSAb) autoanti-
bodies.”

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1996 Mar;81(3):990-4. Relationship
between breast cancer and thyroid disease: relevance of
autoimmune thyroid disorders in breast malignancy. Giani C,
Fierabracci P, Bonacci R, Gigliotti A, Campani D, De Negri F,
Cecchetti D, Martino E, Pinchera A. “Hashimoto's thyroiditis was
found in 13.7% of BC patients and in only 2% of the controls (P
< 0.005). Other thyroid disorders found in the BC group included 2
cases of Graves’ disease, 2 of thyroid carcinoma, and 1 of subacute
thyroiditis, whereas in the control group only | case of Graves’
disease and none of the other disorders were found. Mean free T3,
free T4, and TSH concentrations showed no difference between BC
patients and controls. The prevalence of thyroperoxidase antibody
was higher in BC patients than in controls (23.5% vs. 8%; P <
0.005), whereas the prevalence of thyroglobulin antibody was not
different. In BC patients the presence of thyroid antibodies was
more frequently associated with clinically detectable autoimmune
thyroiditis (14 of 26, 51.8%; P = 0.03) and was more common in
the younger group.” “In conclusion, 1) the present study provides
evidence that the overall prevalence of thyroid disorders is
increased in patients with breast cancer, and 2) thyroid
autoimmune disorders, especially Hashimoto's thyroiditis, account
to a large extent for the increased prevalence of thyroid disease in
patients with breast cancer.”

Eur J Cell Biol 1995 Jan;66(1):39-46. Regulated
O-glycosylation of the Alzheimer beta-A4 amyloid precursor
protein in thyrocytes. Graebert KS, Popp GM, Kehle T, Herzog

Vv. “In thyrocytes, the beta-amyloid precursor protein

(beta-APP) is expressed, proteolytically cleaved and released
into the extracellular space in a TSH-dependent fashion.”

Lab [nvest 1995 May:72(5):513-23. Localization and
regulated release of Alzheimer amyloid precursor-like protein in
thyrocytes. Graebert KS, Lemansky P, Kehle T, Herzog V.
“Dysregulation in the processing of the Alzheimer precursor protein
(APP) is thought to be central to the deposition of the beta~A4
peptide and to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Expression
and release of APP has also been known to mediate cell-matrix
interactions and to participate in the regulation of cell
proliferation.” “Because of the specific processing of exportable
proteins, thyrocyles represent a particularly useful cell type for the
study of the processing of APP/APLP (especially proteolysis and
iodination) as an indication of cell surface expression and for the
study of the regulation of these functions.” “The observations show
the expression, maturation, and secretion of APP/APLP in thyro-
cytes and the up-regulation of these processes by TSH. Part of
the immature APP/APLP appeared on the cell surface as indicated
by its iodination. Apparently, this portion of immature APP/APLP
escaped maturation during its transport to the cell surface.”

Rinsho Shinkeigaku 1993 Sep;33(9):995-7, [A case of
Hashimoto's encephalopathy with a relapsing course related to
menstrual cycle] [Article in Japanese] Ishii K, Hayashi A, Tamaoka
A, Mizusawa H, Shoji 8. “Hashimoto's thyroiditis was diagnosed on
the basis of high thyroid microsomal titer and mild hypothyroidism.
Neurological findings in admission included action tremor in both
hands, myoclonus in all extremities, cerebellar ataxia, confusion,
and hyperreflexia.* “Hashimoto's encephalopathy was diagnosed
from these findings. These episodes of remission and exacerbation
were observed during the admission. Her symptoms started at
ovulation, worsened during the luteal phase, and improved when
menstruation started. After the third relapse, she was treated
with oral thyroxine for hypothyroidism and with an estrogen
and progesterone combination to regulate the menstrual cycle.
Her thyroid function gradually became euthyroid and she did not
experience any subsequent relapses. The relation between the
relapsing course and menstrual cycle suggests that the periodic
alteration of gonadotrophic and/or gonadal hormones or the
menstrual regulating center itself in the brain may be an
important factor of pathogenetic mechanism of the disorder.”

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1983 Jun;56(6):1164-8., Thyroid-
infiltrating T lymphocyte subsets in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Jansson R, Totterman TH, Sallstrom J, Dahlberg PA. “In Hashi-
moto's thyroiditis, the thyroid gland is infiltrated with immunocom-
petent lymphocytes.” “We observed a relative decrease in intrathy-
roidal suppressor phenotype T (OKT 8+) cell numbers compared
with peripheral blood (13% vs. 26%; P less than 0.01 by Wilcoxon
signed rank test). This resulted in an increased helper to suppressor
T (OKT 4+/OKT 8+) cell ratio (4.7 vs. 2.1; P less than 0.01).
Within the gland, a significant local accumulation of B cells was
also registered (27% vs, 12%; P less than.0.01). As to circulating
lymphocyte subsets, no differences were found between 18 Hashi-
moto's thyroiditis patients and 26 normal subjects. Our results are
compatible with a local synthesis of thyroid-directed antibodies and
emphasize the importance of studying the local immunity in organ-
specific autoimmune disease.”

Endocr Rev 1996 Feb;17(1):45-63. Thyroid hormone
metabolism and thyroid diseases in chronic renal failure. Kaptein
EM. “Goiter and hypothyroidism may be induced by iodide excess,
due to reduced renal iodide excretion, and may be reversed with
iodide restriction in some patients.”

Acta Med Austriaca 1999;26(4):126-8. [Thyroid autoantibodies
in depressive disorders] [Article in German] Konig F, von Hippel
C, Petersdorff T, Kaschka W. “We found autoantibodies (MAK,

TAK, TRAK) in a high percentage (100 out of 144 = 70%) in
severely depressed inpatients. Also we found a Hashimoto thyre-
oiditis in 5 patients." “We conclude that in cases of repeated
depressive episodes especially depression of the elderly and in
nonresponders it seems necessary not only to get lab for TSH, T3
and T4 but also to assess the autoimmune status of the thyroid
gland (autoantibodies). There is further need for controlled studies
whether there is a better outcome in nonresponders to antidepres-
sive medical treatment and positive autoantibody status after
supplementation with triiodothyronine.”

Hokkaido Igaku Zasshi 1994 May;69(3):614-26. |Screening
for thyreid dysfunction in adults residing in Hokkaido Japan:
in relation to urinary iodide concentration and thyroid autoan-
tibodies| [Article in Japanese] Konno N, Itzuka N, Kawasaki K,
Taguchi H, Miura K, Tagucht S$, Murakami S, Hagiwara K, Noda
Y, Ukawa S. “The prevalence of thyroid dysfunction and its
relation to thyroid autoantibodies (TAA) and urinary iodide
concentration (UF was studied in apparently healthy adults in
Sapporo (n = 4110) (Sapporo group), and in five coastal areas of
Hokkaido (n = 1061) (coastal group) which produce iodine-rich
seaweed (kelp). The frequency of above normal UI (high UL in the
morning urinary samples of coastal group was 10.8%, significantly
higher than that of Sapporo group (6.4%) (p < 0.001). Frequency
of positive TAA in both groups were similar. In Sapporo group
TAA was positive in 6.4% of males and 13.8% of females with an
age-related increase.” The overall prevalence of hyperthyroidism
(TSH < 0.15 mU/L) in coastal group (0.6%) was similar io that in
Sapporo group (1.1%), while that of hypothyroidism (TSH > 5.0
mU/L) in coastal group (3.8%) was significantly higher than
that in Sapporo group (1.3%) (P < 0.001). The frequency of high
UI correlated significantly with that of hypothyroidism with
negative TAA (r = 0.829, P < 0.05), but not with positive TAA, or
with that of hyperthyroidism. Hypothyroidism was more prevalent
in TAA negative subjects with high UI than with normal UI.
Moreover, serum TSH and thyroglobulin levels were higher and
free T4 level was lower in former than in latter group. “These
results indicate that 1) the prevalence of TAA negative hypothy-
roidism in iodine sufficient areas may be associated with the
amount of iodine ingested, 2) this hypothyroidism is more preva-
lent and marked in subjects consuming further excess amounts
of iodine, and 3) excessive intake of iodine should be considered
an etiology of hypothyroidism in addition to chronic thyroiditis in
these areas.”

Endocrinology 1993 Jun;132(6):2645-53. Thyroglobulin
molecules internalized by thyrocytes are sorted in early
endosomes and partially recycled back to the follicular lumen.
Kostrouch Z, Bernier-Valentin F, Munari-Silem Y, Rajas F,
Rabilloud R, Rousset B. “Thyroglobulin (Tg) molecules stored in
thyroid follicle lumens are heterogeneous in terms of iodine and
hormone contents. It has been suggested that thyroid hormone is
preferentially produced from the most highly iodinated Tg
molecules and that thyrocytes are capable of selecting these
molecules. The cellular localization as well as the molecular basis
of such a selection process are not known.” “In conclusion. our
data show that 1) the thyroid apical endocytic process does not
exhibit selectivity for Tg; 2) the thyrocyte possesses a sorting
machinery for endocytosed ligands; and 3) internalized Teg
molecules can be recycled back to the follicular lumen.”

Autoimmunity 1997:26(3):173-87. Effects of HgCl2 on the
expression of autoimmune responses and _ disease in
diabetes-prone (DP) BB rats. Kosuda LL, Greiner DL, Bigazzi
“We found that DP rats treated with mercury or water for a period
of 40-125 days developed autoantibodies to thyroglobulin, with a
higher incidence in HgCl2-injected animals (92% vs. 56% in

H20-injected controls). A novel finding of our study was the
detection of autoantibodies to laminin in the same rats, again with
an increased incidence after HeCl2 treatment (83% vs. 44%).” “...
while mercury does not seem to recruit, induce or rescue regulatory
T cell function in DP rats, it does stimulate autoantibody responses
in these animals.”

Life Sci 1999:64(12):1037-44. Thyroid stimulating hormone-
receptor overexpression in brain of patients with Down
syndrome and Alzheimer's disease. Labudova O, Cairns N, Koeck
T. Kitamueller E, Rink H, Lubec G.

Cytopathology 2002 Feb:13(1):31-9. Aspiration cytology of
Hashimoto's thyroiditis in an endemic area. Kumar N, Ray C,
Jain S. “Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the second most common
thyroid lesion next to endemic goitre diagnosed on FNA in iodine
(12) deficient areas.” “In the present study the patients presented
with HT a decade earlier than reported in J2 sufficient areas. Presen-
tation as a nodular thyroid is common. Diagnosis of HT is likely to
be missed in smears showing cytological evidence of hyperplasia or
abundant colloid. HT was concurrent in 20 cases of endemic
goitre.”

JAMA 1994 Aug 3;272(5):364-70, Thyroid diseases among
atomic bomb survivors in Nagasaki. Nagataki S, Shibata Y, Inoue
S, Yokoyama N, Izumi M, Shimaoka K. “A significant dose-
response relationship was observed for solid nodules, which include
cancer, adenoma, adenomatous goiter, and nodules without histo-
logical diagnosis, and for antibody-positive spontaneous hypothy-
roidism (autoimmune hypothyroidism) but not for other diseases.
The prevalence of solid nodules showed a monotonic dose-response
relationship, yet that of autoimmune hypothyroidism displayed a
concave dose-response relationship reaching a maximum (+/- SE)
level of 0.7 +/- 0.2 Sv.” “The present study confirmed the results of
previous studies by showing a significant increase in solid nodules
with dose to the thyroid and demonstrated for the first time a
significant increase in autoimmune disease among atomic bomb
survivors. A concave dose-response relationship indicates the
necessity for further studies on the effects of relatively low doses of
radiation on thyroid disease.”

Int J Radiat Biol 2001 Apr;77(4):475-82. Persistent subclini-
cal inflammation among A-bomb = survivors. Neriishi K,
Nakashima E, Delongchamp RR. “To investigate the associations
between inflammation tests and radiation dose in A-bomb
survivors.” “The associations with radiation dose were statistically
significant for leukocyte counts (71.0mm(-3) Gy(-1), p=0.015),
erythrocyte sedimentation rate (1.58 mm h(-1) Gy(-1) , p = 0.0001),
corrected erythrocyte sedimentation rate (1.14mm hf-1) Gy(-1),
p=0.0001), alpha-1 globulin (0.0057 ¢ dl(-1} Gy(-1), p=0.0001),
alpha-2 globulin (0.0128 g di(-1) Gy(-1), p=0.0001), and sialic acid
(1.2711 mg di(-f) Gy(-1), p=0.0001) but not for neutrophil counts
(29.9 mm(-3) Gy(-1), p=0.17).” “Among inflammatory diseases,
associations were the strongest for chronic thyroiditis and chronic
liver diseases.” “This study suggests statistically significant associa-
tion between inflammation in A-bomb survivors and radiation dose
of during 1988-1992.”

Acta Endocrinol (Copenh) 1978 Aug;88(4):703-12. A case of
Hashimoto's thyroiditis with thyroid immunological
abnormality manifested after habitual ingestion of seaweed,
Okamura Kk, Inoue K, Omae T. “An interesting case of iodide
induced goitre with immunological abnormalities is described. The
patient who was sensitive to synthetic penicillin had previously
been treated for exudative pleuritis, congestive heart failure and
acute renal failure. Following recovery, he began to ingest large
amounts of seaweed after which he developed  goitrous
hypothyroidism. It was of interest that the serum level of
gamma-globulin increased, and subsequently the antithyroid

microsomal antibody became strongly positive. suggesting that
thyroidal autoimmune processes had been precipitated. Biopsy of
the thyroid gland revealed chronic thyroiditis. with evidence
suggesting extreme stimulation by TSH.” “While there is evidence
suggesting that increased iodide may be an important factor in the
initiation of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, this may result from the
marked increased sensitivity of Hashimoto's gland to the effects of
iodine.”

Thyroid 2001 Mar:11(3):249-55. One-year prophylactic treat-
ment of euthyroid Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients with
levothyroxine: is there a benefit? Padberg S, Heller K, Usadel
KH, Schumm-Draeger PM. “After | year of therapy with LT4,
TPO-Abs and B lymphocytes decreased significantly only in the
treated group of euthyroid patients with HT (p < 0.05). in contrast,
TPO-Abs levels did not change or even increased in untreated
euthyroid patients with HT.” “Prophylactic treatment of euthyroid
patients with HT reduced both serological and cellular markers of
autoimmune thyroiditis. Therefore, prophylactic LT4 treatment
might be useful to stop the progression or even manifestation of the
disease.”

Free Radic Biol Med 1999 Oct;27(7-8):901-10. Thyroid
status modulates glycoxidative and lipoxidative modification of
tissue Proteins. Pamplona R, Portero-Otin M, Ruiz C, Bellmunt
MJ, Requena JR, Thorpe SR, Baynes JW, Romero M, Lopez-
Torres M, Barja G. “The levels of the glycation product
N(epsilon)-fructoselysine (FL) and those of the oxidation
products, N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) and
malondialdehyde-lysine (MDA-lys), identified by GC/MS in
liver proteins, decreased significantly in hyperthyroid rats, as
well as (less acutely) in hypothyroid animals.” “Cytosolic prote-
olytic activity against carboxymethylated foreign proteins measured
in vitro was significantly increased in hypo- and hyperthyroidism.”

Eur J Endocrinol 2002 Jun:146(6):777-81. Vitamin D
lalpha-hydroxylase (CYPlalpha) polymorphism in Graves‘
disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis and type 1 diabetes mellitus.
Pani MA, Regulla K, Segni M, Krause M, Hofmann S, Hufner M,
Herwig J, Pasquino AM, Usadel KH, Badenhoop K. “The vitamin
D endocrine system plays a role in the regulation of
(auto)immunity and cell proliferation.”

Clin Exp Immunol 1988 May:72(2):288-92. The influence of
the normal microbial flora on the susceptibility of rats to
experimental autoimmune thyroiditis. Penhale WI, Young PR.
“Female PVG/c strain rats maintained under specific pathogen-
free conditions until weaning were found to be significantly less
Susceptible to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis by
thymectomy and irradiation than conventionally reared rats of the
same strain.” “It was found that the oral administration of antibiot-
ics followed by fresh, homogenized, intestinal contents obtained
from conventionally reared rats to newly weaned SPF PVG/c rats
significantly augmented their autoimmune susceptibility.” “It is
proposed that the composition of the normal gastrointestinal
flora of conventionally reared rats profoundly influences
susceptibility to the induction of autoimmune thyroiditis in this
particular experimental model, possibly by antigenic cross-
reactivity with thyroid tissue.”

Radiats Biol Radioeco] 1996 Jul-Aug;36(4):632-40. {The
Probable sequelae of thyroid damage from radioactive iodine
during the Chernobyl accident] Poverennyi AM, Shinkarkina AP,
Vinogradova JuE, Beziaeva GP, Podgorodnichenko VK, Tsyb AF.
“The analysis of the situation when children's thyroids were
subjected to irradiation shows that tumors can most frequently
develop as late as 20-30 years after irradiation. There are reasons to
believe that tumors are induced by low dose of irradiation. The
most important factor in development of pathologies is for sure the

—————_

age of the children of the moment of irradiation, A well-known
consequence of the impact of radiation on the thyroid is the
lymphocyte thyroiditis.”

Clin Immunol Immunopathol 1996 Dec;8] (3):287-92. lodine-
induced autoimmune thyroiditis in NOD-H-2h4 mice. Rasooly L,
Burek CL, Rose NR. “Excess iodine ingestion has been implicated
in induction and exacerbation of autoimmune thyroiditis in human
populations and animal models.” “Levels of serum thyroxin (T4)
were similar in the treatment and contro! groups. Thyroglobulin-
specific antibodies were present in the iodine-treated group afier §
weeks of treatment but antibodies to thyroid peroxidase were not
apparent in the serum of any of the animals. Levels of thyroglobulin
antibodies increased throughout the 8-week iodine ingestion period;
however, no correlation was seen between the levels of total thyro-
globulin antibodies and the degree of thyroid infiltration at the time
of autopsy.”

J Endocrinol Invest 2002 May;25(5):447-54. Thyroid
hormone autoantibodies in primary Sjogren syndrome and
rheumatoid arthritis are more prevalent than in autoimmune
thyroid disease, becoming progressively more frequent in these
diseases. Ruggeri RM, Galletti M, Mandolfino MG, Aragona P,
Bartolone S, Giorgianni G, Alesci D, Trimarchi F, Benvenga S. “To
verify the greater prevalence of circulating thyroid hormone
autoantibodies (THAb) in primary Sjogren syndrome (SS) vs
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and Graves' disease (GD), we
measured THAb in the serum of patients with these 3 diseases who
were sampled fram 1998-1999 (no.=20, 88. 25) and 1990-1992
(no.=13, 75, 31).” “We found that IgG antibodies against T3, T4 or
both were present with these prevalences in the 1975-1982, 1990-
1992 and 1998-1999 series: HT=1, 4, 20%; GD=2, 6, 32%; SS=20,
31, 50%; RA=0, 12, 26%; other collagenoses=0, 0, 0%. The major-
ity of the Sjogren or arthritis cases positive for THAb were negative
for TGAb, while the opposite was true for the 2 autoimmune thyroid
diseases. We conclude that prevalence of THAb in the 2
non-thyroid autoimmune diseases is greater than in the 2 thyroid
autoimmune diseases. In addition, prevalence of THAb ts increasing
over time regardless of disease. Molecular similarity between
extra-thyroid connective proteins (specifically associated to
primary SS and RA) and iodinated regions of TG, and an
increased preponderance of environmental factors as triggers of
autoimmune diseases might account for our findings.”

Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am 1987 Jun;16(2):327-42.
Environmental factors affecting autoimmune thyroid disease.
Safran M, Paul TL, Rott E, Braverman LE. “Exposure to excess
iodine, certain drugs, infectious agents and pollutants, and stress
have all been implicated.”

J Immunol 1994 Mar 1;152(5):2586-95. Ionizing radiation
and autoimmunity. Induction of autoimmune disease in mice by
high dose fractionated total lymphoid irradiation and its preven-
tion by inoculating normal T cells. Sakaguchi N, Miyai K,
Sakaguchi S. “Ionizing radiation can functionally alter the immune
system and break self-tolerance.”

J Clin Endocrinol Metab 1995 Dec;80(12):3513-9. Thyroid
epithelial cells produce large amounts of the Alzheimer beta-
amyloid precursor protein (APP) and generate potentially
amyloidogenic APP fragments. Schmitt TL, Steiner E, Klingler P,
Lassmann H, Grubeck-Loebenstein B. “In view of the known
association between familial AD and thyroid autoimmune disease,
the expression pattern and cellular processing of APP in human
thyroid cells were investigated.” “The results of these studies
demonstrated that APP tsoforms 770 and 751 were expressed in
fresh thyroid extracts as well as in cultured thyroid epithelial cells,
with APP 770 being the predominant form. Compared to other
types of cells, such as lymphocytes and fibroblasts. thyroid

epithelial cells produced larger amounts of APP.” “Interestingly,
thyroid epitheltal cells also contained larger C-terminal APP
fragments of 21, 35, and 41 kDa From the sizes of these fragments
it could be deduced that they contained the entire amyloid beta
sequence and were thus potentially amyloidogenic. The 41-kDa
fragment was unique to thyroid cells. These fragments may be
released into the circulation after thyroid cell damage.
Increased/altered thyroid APP expression in familiar AD may
induce alterations in thyroid epithelial cells and cell damage, and
thus explain the frequent occurrence of thyroid autoimmunity in
this disease.”

Radiats Biol Radioecol 1994 Jan-Feb;34(1):3-7, |Antibodies
to the thyroid microsomal antigen in children and adolescents
subjected to radiation exposure as a result of the accident at the
Chernobyl Atomic Electric Power Station} Shinkarkina AP,
Podgorodnichenko VK, Poverennyi AM. “There ts significant
difference in the frequency of the antibody appearance between
persons suffered from radioactive iodine and unsuffered ones.
Correlation between levels of antimicrosomal antibodies and radia-
tion dose obtained from incorporated radioactive iodine was not
estimated.”

Verh Dtsch Ges Pathol  1996;80:297-301. |Spontaneous
Hashimoto-like thyroiditis in cats] Schumm-Draeger PM, Langer
F, Caspar G, Rippegather K, Herrmann G, Fortmeyer HP, Usadel
KH, Hubner K. “A breeding line of domestic cats spontaneously
developing symptoms of hypothyroidism between the 40th and
60th day of life (fur changes. loss of appetite. growth retardation),
elevated levels of antibodies against microsomal structures and
thyroglobulin, and lymphocytic thyroid infiltration has been
recently established at our facility. Aim of our studies was to
examine the effect of high iodine ingestion or prophylactic thyroid
hormone therapy on functional and morphological characteristics
of this Hashimoto-like thyroiditis in cat. From birth to day 80 of
life cats were treated with iodine (n = 9; 0.1 mg/l) or thyroxin (n =
{3; 2.0 micrograms/ kg/d) respectively. Untreated animals served
as controls (n = 12). Cat-serum was tested for thyroid function
(TT3, TT4). After § weeks the thyroid tissue was submitted to
routine histological processing (H&E) and the inflammatory activ-
ity was scored.” “Both untreated hypothyroid (UHC) as well as
iodine-treated (IC) cats revealed a significantly higher degree of
thyroid inflammation and higher tissue levels of IgM as the
thyroxin-substituted animals (TC).” “Early thyroid hormone
therapy significantly decreases both incidence and activity of
autoimmune thyroiditis in cats as measured by inflammatory
infiltration, IgM production and epithelial proliferation.
Animals with excess iodide intake, however, show an aggrava-
tion of the autoimmune inflammatory activity.”

Vnitr Lek 1999 Sep:45(9):527-31. [Reactions to metals in
patients with chronic fatigue and autoimmune endocrinopathy]
Sterzl I, Hrda P, Prochazkova J, Bartova J, Matucha P. “Our study
was designed to assess the effect of heavy metals on the severity of
fatigue in autoimmune thyroid disease associated with
autoantibodies against other endocrine organs.” “Fatigue regardless
of the underlying disease is primarily associated with
hypersensitivity to inorganic and organic mercury, nickel, and
gold. The groups differed in their hypersensitivity to other metals.
In the control group, hypersensitivity--mostly to cadmium and
lead--was found in four of the examined individuals only.
Statistical analysis of data obtained from professionals and controls
revealed a higher incidence of positivity to organic and inorganic
mercury and nickel in professionals.”

Neurcendocrinol Lett 1999;20(3-4):221-228. Mercury and
nickel allergy: risk factors in fatigue and autoimmunity. Sterz! |,
Prochazkova J, Hrda P, Bartova J, Matucha P. Stejskal VD. We

have found that fatigue, regardless of the underlying disease, is
primarily associated with hypersensitivity to inorganic mercury and
nickel. The lymphocyte stimulation by other metals was similar in
fatigued and control groups. To evaluate clinical relevance of
positive in vitro findings, the replacement of amalgam with
metal-free restorations was performed in some of the patients. At a
six-month follow-up, patients reported considerably alleviated
fatigue and disappearance of many symptoms previously
encountered; in parallel, lymphocyte responses to metals decreased
as well. We suggest that metal-driven inflammation may affect the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) and indirectly
tigger psychosomatic multisymptoms characterizing chronic fatigue
syndrome, fibromyalgia, and other diseases of unknown etiology.

The New England Journal of Medicine Volume 326:513-518
February 20, 1992 Number 8. Disappearance of thyrotropin-
blocking antibodies and spontaneous recovery from hypothy-
roidism in autoimmune thyroiditis. N Takasu, T Yamada, M
Takasu, I Komtya, Y Nagasawa, T Asawa, T Shinoda, T Aizawa,
and Y Koizumi. “We determined the frequency with which
thyrotropin-blocking antibodies were present in 172 hypothyroid
patients with goitrous autoimmune thyroiditis (Hashimoto's disease}
and 64 hypothyroid patients with atrophic autoimmune thyroiditis
(idiopathic primary hypothyroidism). For 6 to 11 years we then
followed 21 of these patients who were found to have thyrotropin-
blocking antibodies. They received levothyroxine therapy for 3.5 to
8 years, after which it was discontinued.” “Thyrotropin-blocking
antibodies were detected in 9 percent of the patients with
goitrous autoimmune thyroiditis and in 25 percent of those with
atrophic autoimmune thyroiditis. Among the 21 patients studied
serially while receiving levothyroxine, thyrotropin-blocking
antibodies disappeared in 15 (group 1), 7 of whom had goiter
initially, and persisted in 6 (group 2), none of whom had goiter
initially. Levothyroxine therapy was subsequently discontinued in
these 21 patients. Six of those in group i (four with goiter)
remained euthyroid (mean follow-up after discontinuation of
therapy, 2.1 years), and nine became hypothyroid again within 3
months. All six patients in group 2 remained hypothyroid.
CONCLUSIONS. Hypothyroidism in some patients with autoim-
mune thyroiditis may be due to thyrotropin-blocking antibodies.
The production of thyrotropin-blocking antibodies may subside,
producing remissions of hypothyroidism. Chronic autoimmune
thyroiditis may therefore cause transient as well as permanent
hypothyroidism.”

Clin Exp Immunol 1993 Mar;91(3):442-8. Gender-related influ-
ences on the development of chronic graft-versus-host disease-
induced experimental lupus nephritis. Treurnict RA, Bergijk EC,
Baelde JJ, De Heer E, Hoedemaeker PJ, Bruijn JA. “Autoimmune
diseases are far more common in women than in men. In the
incidence of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), the female-to-
male ratio is as high as 10:1. This suggests that sex hormones
may play a fundamental role in determining the susceptibility to
these diseases.” “After four cell transfers, female recipients devel-
oped a significantly higher albuminuria than both male groups.
Serum concentrations of autoantibodies against glomerular
basement membrane (GBM), collagen IV, and laminin were signifi-
cantly higher in females 2-4 weeks after induction.” “These findings
indicate that: (i) in this model of lupus nephritis, susceptibility to
glomerulonephritis is strongly influenced by sex-related genes; and
(i) among the variety of autoantibodies occurring in this model of
SLE, both anti-GBM and anti-RTE autoantibodies play a key role in
the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis.”

Jimmunol 2002 Mar 1;168(5):2470-4. A unique combination
of inflammatory cytokines enhances apoptosis of thyroid follicu-
lar cells and transforms nondestructive to destructive thyroiditis

in experimental autoimmune thyroiditis. Wang SH, Bretz JD,
Phelps E, Mezosi E, Arscott PL, Utsugi S, Baker JR Jr. “Compared
with control animals, mice treated with IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha
showed significantly sustained lymphocytic infiltration in the
thyroid, which was associated with the destruction of portions of
the follicular architecture at wk 6 after initial immunization.”
“Minimal apoptosis of thyroid epithelial cells was observed unless
the mice were pretreated with IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha. These
data demonstrate that this unique combination of inflammatory
cytokines facilitates the apoptotic destruction of thyroid follicular
cells in experimental autoimmune thyroiditis, in a manner similar
to what is observed in Hashimoto's thyroiditis in humans.”

Presse Med 2002 Oct 26:31(35):1670-5,. [Hypothyroidism
related to excess iodine} Wemeau JL. “Iodine-induced hypothy-
roidism is observed in fetuses, newborn, adults and im the elderly.
It is observed in individuals without underlying overt thyroid disar-
der, and specially in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis or those
previously treated for thyroid diseases (Graves' disease, subacute or
pospartum thyroiditis, iatrogenic thyroid dysfunction...).” “The
hormone deficiency ts of obvious clinical expression, or sometimes
discreet and revealed by horinone exploration. It is usually tempo-
rary. regressing with a few days or weeks after iodine withdrawal.
Nevertheless, some patients require transient hormone replacement
therapy.”

Clin Exp Immunol 1982 Apr:48(1):196-200. Thyroid
antibodies are produced by thyroid-derived lymphocytes.
Weetman AP, McGregor AM, Lazarus JH, Hall R. “The signifi-
cance of the characteristic lymphocytic infiltrate in the target organ
in organ-specifte autoimmune disease is unknown.” “The thyroid
appears to be an important site of thyroglobulin antibody
production but the thyroid lymphocytes also contain many IgG
PFCs of non-thyroglobulin specificity.”

Nephrol! Dial Transplant 1993;8(5):402-6. Increased preva-
lence of thyroid peroxidase antibodies (TPO-Ab) in women
with Glomerulonephritis. Westman KW, Erfurth EM, Hagmar L,
Bygren PG, Ericsson UB, Landin-Olsson M. “Women with
glomerulonephritis had both a significantly greater prevalence of
thyroid peroxidase antibodies (odds ratio 3.85, 95% confidence
interval 1.04-14.3) and an increased prevalence of elevated serum
TSH values (P = 0.007). No such difference was found in men.”

Baillieres Clin Rheumatol 1996 May;10(2):259-71. Hormones
and autoimmunity: animal models of arthritis. Wilder RL.
“Hormones, particularly those involved in the hypothalamic-
pituitary-gonadal and -adrenal axes (HPG and HPA), play impor-
tant roles in various animal models of autoimmunity such as
systemic lupus erythematosus in mice and collagen-induced arthri-
lis (CIA) in mice and rats, and the streptococcal cell wall, adjuvant
and avridine arthritis models in rats. Intimately linked to the
subject of hormones and autoimmunity are gender, sex chromo-
somes and age.” “Oestrogens stimulate higher corticosteroid
responses in females. The animal model data have major impli-
cations for understanding autoimmunity in humans. In particu-
lar, adrenal and gonadal hormone deficiency is likely to facilitate
T-cell dependent diseases like rheumatoid arthritis, while high
oestrogen levels or effects, relative to testosterone, are.likely. to
promote B-cell dependent immune-complex-mediated diseases
such as lupus nephritis.” Tee

Se be oe os ox eo ae ak ak

