new oite*
Roots: "A 3
nt AEE
a¥

tro. Ney,

LIPO-PLEX %.,,

{A Digestive Aid)

The néed for a total digestive support such as Lipo-Plex cannot be over-emphasized, Statistics show
that one in nine persons have chronic digestive disease. Also, 44% of all men and 55% of all women have
a digestive complaint. Areas where digestive disturbances come from are the stomach, smail intestine,

liver, gall-bladder and bowel.

Lipo-Plex is a unique formula in that if supports the stomach. smal! intestine, liver and gall-
bladder. Not only does Lipo-Plex supply freeze-dried glandular support for the liver, pancreas and
duodenum but also provides herbals, digestives, and nutrients. Lipo-Plex is not intended to cure
disease but rather to support the digestive system.

Symptoms and Indications

Chronic indigestion Foul smelling stool

Weight gain Liver Disease

Flatulence Constipation Protein deficiency Colitis

Bloating Halitosis Anemia High Cholesterol
Low Bowel gas Diarrhea Heartburn Alcoholism

60 Tablets $6.00
Formulation: Two Tablets Contain:
9 10 m Pancreas Concentrate ...........e cee ek 200 mg Blue Flag... 6. eee cece cee 50 rag.
BDA nn nent een enecces 9. (Equivalent to 800 mg. NF) Cleavers ........ 50 mg
Bromelain. . -. ee eee wee cee 75mg 3
ACK RACISM 2 eee cee tee eee we 20 mg.

INOSUD. 20... ee nee tee eee 150 mg Pancrehoose........ 0 \
Cholena.... .. DUODENUM oo. cee eee etree ee a 20 mg.
Mathioing eee ee Pitudary .-..... eee AMINO ACID CHELATED MINERALS
Ox Bile. .... Green Beet Leal FS 10 mg.
ne Bladderwrack ©0001 eee cece ee CHLOMIUT, ne eect ees SO meg.

DNA LABS INC., 13243 138th Ave. S.E., Renton, Washington 98055
WASH.(206) 226-5212 WATTS 800-426-7112

Transdermal Progesterone for Premenstrual Syndrome

Raymond F. Pear, Ph.D.
3977 Dillard Road
Eugene. OR 97405

($03) 244-8144

For many years, Katharina Dalton! has studied the use of pro-
gesterone therapy for the premenstrual syndrome. A typical patient
may require ten or more progesterone injections per month, more or
less permanently, While chis is feasible (at least in some countries) it
s not comfortable or convenient, in some cases leads to serious
-eactions at the injection sites, and in the United States would be too
expensive for general use. When the syndrome is disabling, even the
Surden of frequent and expensive injections is usually seen a
welcome alternative, However, a less expensive and more pleasant
‘orm of administration could make the therapy available to millions
sf women who are now disabled for ome or more days each month.
Ve are reporting here on what we believe to be a satisfactory alter-
tative to the injection or implantation of progesterone, namely, a
olution of progesterone and vegetable oil in a lotion or '‘cold
ream’’ base for transdermal use.

After animal experiements revealed that progesterone in vege-
able oil was absorbed effectively through the skin, in 1977 we began
xperiments with women who suffered from the premenstrual syndrome.

The effectiveness of the transdermal (absorption) roure of ad-
mMmistration varies with the individual, but compares favorably with
ajections in the amount assimilated. Thickness of skin or degree of
‘irculation in the skin (these can be very abnormal in bypothyroid-
sm, for example) and the amount of adipose tissue apparently make
ome difference in the rate of absorption and response. When a
mall daily dose (e.g., 5 or 10 mg.) is sufficient, this can be taken as
bouc 250 mg. of a three percent cream rubbed into the throat, where

leave no noticeable oiliness after a few minutes. For large doses,
ie appropriate amount can be applied co a larger area of skin after a
ot bath, once or twice a day if necessary.

We have used transdermal] progesterone therapy in two hundred
women suffering from the full range of premenstrual symptoms,
including migraine, acne, depression, mastalgia, edema, and lethar-
gy, and we found that nearly all of the women, applying the lotion
themselves, are able to find the appropriate dosage for controling
their symptoms. Occasionally, thyroid therapy, weight reduction, or
change in some aspect of life-style is necessary for complete relief
from symptoms. We have learned that jt is necessary to be very
explicit in describing the amounts that can be used, while leaving ic
up to the patient to find the dose which controls her symptoms,
because some women have an exaggerated idea of the power of a
‘hormone.”’ We have leamed, when some women said the proges-
terone had no effect, that they were applying it as sparingly as they
would a rare perfume, just touching it to their wrists.

Another problem we have encountered js that a few women have
trouble understanding how, if their edema is caused by ‘‘hormones,’’
a ‘hormone’? could relieve the edema. We have usually solved such
problems by applying one dose (sometimes using a twenty-five
percent solution) in the office, and waiting thirty or forty minutes to
make sure that jt was large enough to take effect. Once having felt
sudden relief from this ‘‘cold cream,’’ it is easier for the patient to
understand how it should de used.

Unfortunately, many of the solvents which hold progesterone
stably in a concentrated solution are highly allergenic. Injectable
progesterone in oil could be used transdermally except for chis
problem. Progesterone can be removed from an injectable water
Suspension, and dissolved in warm olive or almond oi) for trans-
dermal use in patients who react to other solvents.

References:
1. Katharina Dalton, The Premenstrual Syndrome and Progesterone
Therapy, Year Book Medica! Publishers, Inc., Chicago, 1977.

Our research was supported by Blake College, Eugene, Oregon, and
by Medical Diet Service, loc., Portland, Oregon.

