Email Exchanges With Ray Peat

The collection of e-mail responses below are (supposed to be) from Ray Peat. They were originally collected by Danny Roddy in 2012, more e-mails were added later on. It is possible that some false e-mails were circulated by some, the authenticity is not a guarantee.

Acacia Gum
[On Acacia Powder/Acacia Gum/Gum Arabic] Yes, acacia gum is very allergenic. It has taken me two or three weeks to get over symptoms from it, when I accidentally got it in a food. But other irritating foods might keep the symptoms going, so it's good to watch for changes with different foods.
Acetaminophen
[Reaction to Excedrin] Yes, although the aspirin and caffeine help to detoxify acetaminophen.
Acne
Have you tried anything topical, such as sulfur, or an antibiotic such as minocycline? 10% sulfur soap leaves an antiseptic residue on the skin that can prevent infection.

I think it would be good to try the sulfur soap first.

[sulfur soap] The simple ones are what I use; I haven't tried one with salicylic acid.

Is it okay to shower twice a day and use sulfur soap?
The sulfur lingers on the skin for at least a day. It can leave you fairly smelly.

[Can flowers of sulfur taken internally help with acne? Would minocycline also help?] Either of them can help, but with prolonged use the intestine can develop sensitivity to the sulfur. causing irritation instead of stopping it.
Alcohol
Have you ever had a thyroid test or tried a thyroid supplement? High serotonin activity is often present in hypothyroidism, and alcohol can probably provide temporary compensation for that.

Small amounts of alcohol can have some good antioxidant effects, but beer, wine, and dark whiskey, etc., contain enough estrogen to be harmful.

People have very different reactions to it, probably depending on thyroid activity. It can have an antioxidant effect, but it can also cause hypoglycemia with pro-oxidative effects. If a person eats polyunsaturated fats, alcohol is more likely to cause oxidative reactions between iron and the fats.

[WODKA] No, it is likely to increase the absorption.

Heavy drinking inhibits cellular respiration and sets up an inflammatory process, involving iron, which will still be harmful, but less so than in the presence of PUFA. If absolutely none of the dietary PUFA were in the body, no one really knows what that metabolic stress would do, maybe nothing cumulative.
Alice in Wonderland / Todd's Syndrome
I have experienced that; I suspect that it has to do with the depletion of brain energy, and endotoxin and serotonin (and fever) are good candidates for causes.
Alliums (garlic & onions)
Raw, they do have some germicidal effects, sometimes improving intestinal function. The effect depends on the nature of an individual's intestinal flora.

It's about as hard on the stomach as on the germs.
Aloe Vera
A milliliter of real aloe juice is a strong laxative, and unless it's dried it doesn't last without preservatives. I doubt that it would be useful.
Altitude
High altitudes are usually sunny.

2000 meters has a noticeable effect after a couple of weeks, higher is better, but it's necessary to take some time to adapt to the higher altitudes before being very active.

[1750m above sea level] That's high enough to make a difference.
Anti-depressants
[Weaning off anti-depressants] Keeping the metabolic rate and cholesterol up is important, so that repair and adaptation will be quick. Progesterone reduces pain and anxiety, and pregnenolone would be the most convenient supplement for men, but it's hard to find products without allergens. Combining progesterone and DHEA or testosterone can produce the stabilizing effect without suppressing the libido. Benadryl and cyproheptadine are probably both helpful. Withdrawal from morphine and SSRIs and migraine involve some similar processes.

I knew someone who had been addicted to morphine and alcohol for 30 years, who was drinking quarts of beer and wine daily when he didn't have morphine, who had an opportunity for a good job if he could get sober. Starting progesterone at bedtime (and stopping the wine), he said it was the first time he didn't have a hangover in the morning. He used enough progesterone to neuter most people, but said it didn't affect his sex function; he was taking a lot of Cytomel and magnesium, but wasn't drunk again as long as I knew him, and his general health improved.
[Continued] The person I described who recovered so completely took about 1000 mg of progesterone during the first night, and more than 1000 mg daily for a few weeks, but that much could make some people comatose; it's a matter of individual hormone status. I think the SSRI drugs continue to do harm, even when they reduce withdrawal symptoms.

[Weaning off anti-depressants] It depends on how much pregnenolone you can assimilate. People would use progesterone in amounts needed to stop the withdrawal symptoms, but pregnenolone doesn't have the powerful effects of progesterone, even in multi-gram quantities, so it's just a matter of seeing what it can do. As I understand the mechanism (migraine, withdrawal, etc.), estrogen-histamine-serotonin rise on a background of hypothyroid liver malfunction, cytomel (and/or sugar, selenium, B vitamins) allows the liver and other detoxifying systems to lower them, and the lower they are, the less progesterone or pregnenolone it takes to block the symptoms.
Antibiotics
No, I just do it occasionally.

I usually break the tablets up, and use fourths or halves, at intervals according to need. It's important to get some vitamin K1 or K2 when you use an antibiotic (liver or kale, or supplements). Have you checked your thyroid? Low thyroid function is usually behind the dark circles.

For myself, I judge by symptoms; if I feel an effect from a first dose, I take a smaller dose, usually 100mg, the next time, and similar amounts as long as the symptom is decreasing, and when I don't notice any symptom, I take a few smaller doses.

Since most people get some vitamin K from intestinal bacteria, it's important to eat liver or to take a K supplement if you use antibiotics for a long time. After a first big dose or two, you should be able to sense when you have enough in your tissues; it has a noticeable smell or sensation while exhaling. I have found that 3 doses of 100mg per day for a few days is usually enough, after one or two bigger doses.

Aspirin has a mild germicidal effect. Sometimes 30 to 50 milligrams of tetracycline or penicillin can help. Flowers of sulfur, a pinch a day for a few days will often establish a new flora.
Aspirin
I don't know anyone who has a stomach reaction when they dissolve the aspirin in hot water, and then take it with food. There are alternatives, such as magnesium salsalate or just plain salicylic acid (which should be used dissolved and with food). People using it with cancer usually take a daily total of 6 grams or more. Vitamin K protects against bleeding and other effects of prolonged aspirin use.

I mostly use the pure crystals, but in Mexico I use the Bayer tablets.

Yes, topical aspirin and caffeine stimulate hair growth.

If the aspirin smells like vinegar it's decomposing, otherwise the expiration date doesn't matter. I have some aspirin, USP, that's at least 10 years old that's still good.

[STARCH IN ASPIRIN TABLETS PROBLEMATIC] Only if it causes symptoms such as hemorrhoids, asthma, or headaches.

[SAFETY OF ANIMAL ASPIRIN] They sell aspirin, USP, for animals, which is the same as used for people, except that it doesn't contain the toxic additives of the tablets.

Some therapists have advocated it. [USE OF ASPIRIN IN BATH]

People sometimes take that much aspirin attempting suicide, but I don't think that's relevant to a conclusion about antinociception.

It depends on the context; aspirin makes you need more vitamin K, even when you aren't using much. People who use aspirin for arthritis or cancer often take several grams a day.

7000 mg is a lot, and it's very important to take vitamin K with aspirin.

It can help with sleep, but you should try it first in the afternoon, because sometimes its first effect can stimulate your metabolism and delay sleep. If you use it regularly, you should have some vitamin K (for example liver once a week).

When aspirin and niacinamide lower the temperature I think it's because they lower the stress hormones.

It's [ASPIRIN] protective against sun aging, like vitamin E. I think the most helpful thing for wrinkles is pregnenolone (internally), since it increases the tone of connective tissues, causing the fascia and similar tissues to contract, if they have been sagging from a metabolic energy problem (caused by accumulated PUFA).

I think a little aspirin, regularly if not daily, is good prevention [CANCER], if you are sure to get enough vitamin K, to prevent excess bleeding. The amount depends on how you react to it, and can change as your metabolism adjusts. Taking some at bedtime can be very helpful for sleeping; sometimes I take about 500 mg at night, but other times just a little. I think the crystals are more stable, but I keep the big container (a multi-year supply) in the freezer, and keep out enough for a couple of months. The powdered forms developed an acetic acid smell with time, the crystals don't. 

USP aspirin from any source is usually good. I buy it by the kilo.

I know people who had lifelong "aspirin allergy" who now use it regularly. I think part of it is the metabolic problems caused by PUFA and low thyroid function.
Athletes
[Do you think all athletes should supplement thyroid?] No, if the diet and level of activity are right, it shouldn't be necessary.
Autism
I suspect that it's an adaptive reaction to prenatal exposure to stress. The imbalances of endorphins, serotonin, catecholamines, and other nerve-regulators that have been seen in autism sometimes can be produced in adults by combined fatigue and poor nutrition, and when the liver's glycogen is depleted, it can be hard to restore the balance. Prenatal influences of different types could damage connectivity, which permitting cells to survive. Normally, a large proportion of brain cells die before birth, because of limited availability of glucose.

Since autism typically involves high serotonin, things like thyroid, lisuride, tianeptine, and gelatin could be helpful.
Autoimmune Diseases
[Do high level of Thyroglobulin Antibodies and Thyroid Peroxidase (TPO) Antibodies show autoimmune thyroditis?] When TSH is too high for a long time, it causes inflammation in the gland, and the antibodies are in reaction to that
Bacon
The nitrate isn't likely to be a problem if you eat it with orange juice. I fry the bacon to remove some of the fat, and then refry it in coconut oil, to remove most of the PUFA.
Baking Soda
It slows digestion down for a few minutes.
Blood Tests
I don't think saliva hormone tests are reliable. They are a convenient way to see whether the changes of cortisol during the day follow the normal pattern, but for judging its adequacy in an absolute sense I wouldn't pay any attention to them, since the saliva is subject to many influences that don't have much to do with the blood and other fluids. The hormones in the urine are mostly glucuronidated or sulfated, and so represent liver metabolism more than hormonal effects. Total cortisol is good. Some articles below discuss the problems with the 'free hormone' hypothesis.
Brain Size
It makes the body's glycogen stores more important, so thyroid function can benefit especially from avoidance of PUFA; coffee's protective effects, increasing metabolic efficiency, are probably especially helpful.

Regarding intelligence and a big head---the brain is energetically a very expensive organ in terms of its energy requirements, and the liver has to be very efficient to meet its needs, so when there is a nutritional or hormonal problem, the problems can be especially intense. Nutritional needs for sugar, protein, vitamins, and minerals can be very high.
Brewer's yeast
I would use about a fourth of a cup, and let it stand until it finished settling, and then just pour off the clear yellow part.

Because of the phosphate, it depends on your need for it, and the amount of milk and cheese in your diet, etc.
Broth
[How long to cook broths?] It's mostly for the attached cartilage, ligaments, and tendons, and most of the gelatin is released in 3 or 4 hours. Excess cooking oxidizes nutrients, especially if there's marrow in the bone.

[Safety of using chicken carcasses] In the US, chickens are fed arsenic to make them grow faster, and it concentrates in the bones; you should find out what the chicken feeding practice is in your area.
Bruxism / Restless leg syndrome
I think it's caused by irritation and inflammation in the intestine, increasing serotonin. Starches and fibers support bacterial growth and can increase serotonin. Restless leg syndrome is another night-time reaction to bacterial overgrowth..
Calcium
Unless you like cheese and milk, a calcium supplement would be the only way to balance the phosphate. Powdered eggshells are the best calcium supplement, oyster shells are the next best. Having some fruit, such as orange juice each time you eat meat will make the protein assimilation much more efficient, so less is needed. The natural sugar in fruit is mostly sucrose, equal parts of glucose and fructose, and the fruits have some of the minerals needed to use carbohydrate efficiently.

Milk and cheese are the best foods for getting enough calcium, and they will help to keep your protein intake up; an active person needs at least 100 grams daily for efficiency. ...80 grams of protein daily is probably enough for a medium sized person who isn't very active. I have known people whose thyroid function improved noticeably when they increased their protein from 20 grams to 40 grams daily. (A quart of milk has 32 grams of protein, an egg about 6 grams.) If you depend on chicken for your major protein, it will contribute to suppressing your thyroid and progesterone. Increased salt helps to increase your metabolic rate. Low thyroid makes you lose salt too easily, and temporarily just eating more salt helps to make up for low thyroid-adrenals-progesterone.

Did they mention the CO2 or bicarbonate? That's usually low with hypothyroidism, and CO2 is what regulates calcium. Powdered eggshell (mixed with food) is a safe way to supplement calcium.

The milk estrogen research isn't good. It also contains thyroid and progesterone and other protective substances. The high calcium content helps to increase the metabolic rate, and probably contributes to maintaining the anabolic balance.

Regarding milk and its tryptophan content, The calcium helps to keep the metabolic rate high, and the other nutrients help to steer tryptophan away from the serotonin path.

[You have mentioned that you maintain a very high calcium to phosphorus ratio. What is a very high ratio? Is there a maximum limit for high ratio? Is 2000 mg calcium and 1000 mg phosphorus a safe ratio?] Yes, that's safe. Even a 1 to 1 ratio is probably safe, but the ideal hasn't been clearly defined.
Cancer
[SKIN CANCER] Yes, avoidance of unsaturated fats is the most important thing. Aspirin, caffeine, and orange juice are protective. Keeping the TSH low is important, because it stimulates melanoma growth.

[EYE MELANOMAS] I had some probable melanomas years ago, and I found that progesterone and DHEA and increased thyroid caused them to disappear quickly. His other symptoms are very suggestive of a deficiency of pregnenolone, progesterone, and thyroid, as well as the vitamin and minerals. Once when I had four ounces of beer daily for a few weeks several moles grew rapidly, and I realized it was probably the estrogen in the beer that was responsible, and two weeks after I stopped the moles dried up and fell off. Orange juice contains naringenin which is effective against melanoma, and guavas contain apigenin, also effective. A diet consisting of milk, orange juice, guavas, cheese, and some eggs, liver, and oysters, with aspirin would be protective against the spread of the tumor. Thorne's high potency vitamin K drops would help with the blood pressure, and vitamin K also has some anticancer activity, and is necessary when you use a lot of aspirin. At least 15 milligrams per day would probably quickly regulate his blood pressure.
Pregnenolone isn't a hormone, but it normalizes the steroid hormones, preventing excess cortisol and helping to normalize aldosterone, so it should be helpful for any stress including surgery. Progesterone has a wide spectrum of anticancer activity, but as far as I know only synthetic progestins have been used medically. Although I used myself it on things that appeared to be very active melanomas, I usually recommend a slightly hyperthyroid state for helping to control it.

[Glycine & cancer - see http://www.sciencemag.org/content/336/6084/1040.short] They are forgetting the organism and the liver and gluconeogenesis, and the glucogenic amino acids. They are approaching the issue of cancer metabolism from the perspective of "cancer genes." Cancers have multiple ways to convert the body into fuel to support their growth.
The interesting thing about that article is that 10 people working at Harvard and related institutions would choose to do a Science- Fair-suitable project; I'm not surprised that the AAAS magazine would publish it, since it doesn't clash with the doctrine of cancer as the result of mutated genes. For about 70 years, the cancer establishment denigrated Warburg for commercial reasons. The present use of his name by mainline researchers for immature ideas about cancer physiology shows the quality of biomedical education in the US and Europe.
An enzyme that activates glycolysis, PFKFB4, is normally increased by oxygen deprivation and the hypoxia inducible factor (HIF), but it is also increased by heme oxygenase (Li, et al., 2012). Gluconeogenesis is normally inhibited by heme, which is removed by heme oxygenase. Lactic acid produced by glycolysis activates an enzyme (thioredoxin) that increases cellular sulfhydryl reduction, and increases HIF and also stimulates the formation of new blood vessels by inducing VEGF, the permeability and growth factor which is essential for the growth of cancer, and which is induced by heme oxygenase. While interfering with the functions of mitochondria, heme oxygenase also stimulates the growth of new mitochondria, along with new blood vessels.

[Topical fluorouracil for skin cancer] About 6% of the fluorouracil is absorbed systemically.
Cannabis
Cannabis is antiandrogenic or estrogenic, but it can be protective in some situations.
Carbonated Drinks
In a crisis situation, it (or baking soda in water) can be helpful, but it's more effective to rebreathe in a paper bag.
Carrot
[INTESTINAL BACTERIA] A daily raw carrot (shredded, with olive oil and vinegar, for example) can gradually change the ecology. Sometimes very small amounts of an antibiotic can do it.

Just chewing a carrot is best, any saturated fat around the same time is o.k. What doesn't work very well is to grind the carrot very fine.

If you want to avoid the carotene of carrots, they can be rinsed after shredding; washed and cooked bran or psyllium husk can be effective, too.
Cascara
The bulk powder from Farmalabor in Italy is the kind I like best, but US Customs can cause problems with that. Naturlich Kost Co-op, 4260 TR 628, Millersburg, OH. 44654, sells it mixed with glycerine, which is o.k.

I think cascara's most important effect is the reduction of the pro-inflammatory nitric oxide, which poisons mitochondrial energy production. Raw carrot or bamboo shoots can sometimes have a similar effect by reducing NO synthesis.
Cassava
Cyanide is a goitrogen, and its quantity varies with the way the cassava is prepared. It's essential for the starch to be very well cooked, and eaten with some fat.
Centrophenoxine, Piracetam & DMAE
[What is your opinion on Centrophenoxine/Meclofenoxate, piracetam or DMAE, for lipofuscin removal? The former particularly seems to have interesting effects on neurotransmitters in the brain.] I don't think there's nearly enough knowledge about its interactions with diet, stress, and hormones.
Cetirizine
I avoid drugs that contain chlorine or fluorine, because of the risk to the liver. [Clarification] Our enzymes aren't designed for the combination of chlorine with carbon molecules.
Cheese
[In cheese,] When the label says 'enzymes,' it is likely that they are using one of the new products; lots of people are having serious intestinal reactions to commercial cheeses. Real animal rennet is still safe, as far as I know. Industrial grade citric acid is a serious allergen for some people, because it contains contaminants that aren't in natural fruit citric acid, but it's probably safer than the industrial 'enzymes.' The producers of the enzyme products claim they are highly purified, but some people react as though they still contain some antigens from the microorganisms. The traditional cheeses were made with milk that soured with the bacteria that lived in the cows, but now it's common to sterilize the milk, and then add cultures, or enzymes, or citric acid, for standardization---but they often put their faith in a commercial product that seems to work well, but that could have serious allergenic contaminants. The same thing has been happening with aged cheeses, many places are no longer letting the native molds infect the cheese curds. Homogenizing doesn't cause any problems---unless they use solvents/detergents for adding the vitamins A and D that are required in milk with reduced fat. The vitamins aren't normally added to whole milk or cream.

It varies a little with the method of making cheese, and the calcium content varies even more [TRYPTOPHAN CONTENT OF CHEESE].

The calcium content [of ricotta cheese] can vary greatly, depending on whether the whey is separated by acid or by bacterial proteolysis.
Chocolate
[ALKALIZED COCOA] The idea is to remove the fat so that it mixes easily with milk.

[Is cocoa as good as coffee to inhibit iron absorption?] Yes.
Cholesterol
If low cholesterol is combined with slightly low thyroid, the protective steroids aren't produced in normal amounts, and inflammatory processes develop. Connective tissue pain, waist fat, and constipation relate to the stress-inflammation processes, for example endotoxin slows the liver's detoxifying process, estrogen and serotonin signal defensive reactions that lead to cumulative problems. Sweet fruits are anti-inflammatory and help to keep the liver functioning, including keeping cholesterol up and keeping estrogen and cortisol under control. When estrogen is relatively high, tryptophan turns into serotonin and slows the thyroid, lowers the temperature. Glycine is the main anti-inflammatory amino acid, and it can normally be made in adequate amounts, but some proteins, especially muscle meats, don't have enough Glycine in relation to tryptophan. Fruits and milk or cheese will usually provide a good balance of the main nutrients, but sometimes gelatin is very useful to balance the other proteins. The calcium content of milk and cheese is important for lowering inflammation, and helps to prevent excess fat deposition. Sodium and vitamin K are closely involved in calcium metabolism.
Circumcision
It's effects are almost exclusively negative, except when the foreskin is extremely constricted.
CO2
[Bag breathing] Just until it's uncomfortable, usually a minute or two, depending on the size of the bag. If you do it a few times in a day, you might notice that it makes your skin (e.g., under nails) pinker, by improving circulation.

[At sea level, roughly how often would someone need to do it (2 mins duration) during a day to maintain a significant, noticeable elevation in CO2 levels?] 2 or 3 times a day will usually do it, you can check blood pressure to see its cumulative effect, but you should see a lingering increase of the pinkness of your nail beds.
Coca Cola / Coke
The coca leaf and cola seed extracts are valuable antiinflammatories. The amount of phosphate is very small compared to the amount in meat, fish, beans, nuts, and grains.
Coconut
[Coconut meat?] It often causes gas and irritation symptoms.

[Coconut water] If it is fresh from the coconut, it's good, also if it has been bottled without additives.
Coconut Oil
If you are using coconut oil regularly, that's a possible source of allergens, if it isn't well refined and deodorized.

Most cities have wholesale grocers that either stock it (in five gallon buckets) or can get it, and they usually charge about $50 per bucket. GloryBee in Eugene is one place I have bought it, and Tropical Traditions has a good one, called expeller expressed, non-certified, and I think it's shipped from Nevada.

It's just filtered, usually through diatomaceous earth, to remove materials other than the fat; the main problem with the unfiltered oil is that it's allergenic for many people. It also degrades quicker.

The problem lots of people have is diarrhea or other bowel reaction when they take more than a very small amount at a time. The first times I used it I smelled like a goat for several days, and even a small amount is enough for me to notice on my skin the next day. [MCT OIL]
Coffee
A couple of times I have seen coffee that had been stored near herbs that made it slightly allergenic, but that could probably be noticed in the flavor.

Dry instant coffee is close to 0.5% magnesium, so a cup of strong coffee has about 40 mg. I make strong drip coffee.

The antioxidants in very fresh coffee might have some special value, but I think instant coffee is on average just as good as brewed coffee. The high temperature of espresso gets the most caffeine, lower temperature processes get the minerals and vitamins (mostly niacin) and aroma, but a little less of the caffeine.

It's important not to drink coffee on an empty stomach, it should always be with food, since it increases the metabolic rate, and can deplete glycogen stores.

Drinking coffee with meals will greatly reduce iron absorption. Abnormal thyroid status can affect ferritin level, without necessarily affecting your iron load.

[COFFEE ENEMAS - "He takes one or two cups of filter coffee and uses it as an enema (holding it in for 15-20 minutes)."] Coffee in such small amounts probably is more effective for protecting against bowel cancer and liver disease when it's used by enema, rather than orally, but I think the general effects might be better when it's drunk.

Organic coffee is preferable (in the coffee orchards I have seen no pesticides were needed), but the roasting process probably eliminates any added chemicals.

[I send Ray Peat the abstract of that study showing Estradiol is increased 70% with 500 mg caffeine daily and got his response. Original study is http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11591405] Relationship between caffeine intake and plasma sex hormone concentrations in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.

[Coffee withdrawal] I suspect that it happens mostly with hypothyroidism, because in the 1970s I averaged dozens of cups a day, and thought about it as soon as I woke up, then suddenly after I took some thyroid, I didn't feel any need for it.
Contact Lenses
I think they would become uncomfortable if they were damaging the tissues.
Cooking
Plant enzymes aren't much help after they are eaten. Slow cooking is the worst for oxidizing cholesterol, quick cooking is safer.

Basically wrong, but there are some areas that would be worth investigating, such as the different physiological effects of raw onions and cooked onions. It's possible that the enzymes inhibit some toxic effects of the irritating chemicals in onions. [RAW FOODS]
Copper
I made it myself, soaking a piece of pure copper with aspirin in water, until a very pale blue color developed. Later, the solution became a deeper blue color, and at a certain concentration I think it's toxic.
CoQ10
I think it's safe.

[What do you think of ubiquinol supplementation? Is it dangerous?] I would prefer to use ubiquinone; the reduced form is more likely to be interactive with iron, etc.
Corn
[GE corn] The bacterial genes that are meant to be toxic to insects can be allergenic to people.
Barbara McClintock's work with corn showed that a change in the plants' environment causes them to shift their genes around, sort of equivalent to internal hybridization. When something new is added to the genome, it changes the results of the rearrangement, unpredictably. Since seeds always contain toxins, anyway, a new allergen probably isn't too important, and the traditional alkali processing of corn might take care of it.
Cortisol
[Jefferies and Safe Uses of Cortisol] I don't think his arguments are correct. The amounts he sometimes prescribed weren't always safe.

[Cortef] I think William Jefferies' book created a lot of interest in that. Since ACTH can interfere with ovarian function, cortisol can sometimes help the ovaries to make progesterone, by suppressing ACTH. But I knew people who followed his prescription and got Cushing's symptoms. Pregnenolone is something that can always be used with thyroid, to guarantee an easy adrenal response.

The doses they prescribe as "replacement" are much more than the adrenals would produce, so they in themselves are diabetogenic. William Jefferies told people that, since the adrenals produce 20 mg of cortisol per day, they should take 30 or 40 mg, as a replacement dose, because only half of it is absorbed. They got fat faces quickly. Using pregnenolone, they were able to taper off the cortisol in a month or two.

[Cortisol - Cortisone - Cortef] Cortisol works in the body although the body can convert cortisol to cortisone. Synthetic cortisol-like drugs, such as prednisone are more like cortisol. Also, hydrocortisone is a drug that acts like cortisol. The body makes 20 mg of cortisol daily. Taking 10 mg of prednisone is equivalent to about 50 mg of cortisol or 2.5 times the daily amount made in-vitro. Cortef is Hydrocortisone which acts like cortisol.

[Cortisol & weak adrenals] Cortisol is a little more water soluble than progesterone, and a diurnal cycle can be seen in the saliva, but the absolute amounts aren't as meaningful as in the serum. Thyroid is needed for the adrenals to function well, and adequate cholesterol, as raw material. It's popular to talk about "weak adrenals," but the adrenal cortex regenerates very well. Animal experimenters can make animals that lack the adrenal medulla by scooping out everything inside the adrenal capsule, and the remaining cells quickly regenerate the steroid producing tissues, the cortex. So I think the "low adrenal" people are simply low thyroid, or deficient in cholesterol or nutrients.

Addison's disease, with adrenal cortex degeneration, can cause cortisol deficiency, in which case progesterone would compensate, but doctors often tell people they "don't have enough cortisol" without proper confirmation.
[Would pregnenolone correct this?] Pregnenolone should usually do it, but progesterone is more certain if the adrenals are really destroyed.
Cosmetics & Perfumes
[Is there anything to worry about/look out for when using deodorant or shaving cream?] It's possible to make them without toxic ingredients, but I don't know of any such products.
Cramps
It [PROGEST-E] can help with cramps, but it would probably take a lot; I think it's better to use thyroid (including T3) to solve the basic problem, since it will let you regulate the balance between estrogen and progesterone, while allowing your cells to balance the minerals, retaining the magnesium needed to prevent cramping. Increasing your intake of all the main minerals, calcium, sodium, potassium, and magnesium usually helps in the short term, but the balance isn't stable if your thyroid is low. Milk, orange juice, coffee (even decaffeinated coffee is a good source of magnesium), and well salted foods, support thyroid functions. Aspirin helps with thyroid function and mineral balance, even helps to prevent excessive estrogen production.
Cyproheptadine
[TOPICAL USE] It would be hard to regulate the dose via the skin.

It's good to start with about half a milligram, at bedtime, to judge its effects when sedation isn't risky.

Cyproheptadine, 2 to 4 mg at bedtime, would help with his sleep as well as the cancer. It also has calcium blocking action, aldosterone antagonism, and antagonizes serotonin's antidiuretic effect.
DHEA
It's very common for people in their forties to become deficient in both pregnenolone and DHEA, but occasionally it happens in younger people, usually because of an imbalance of thyroid and estrogen. In women, too much DHEA can have a masculinizing effect, so it's best to work on the diet, or to use pregnenolone, which doesn't lead to an imbalance between progesterone and DHEA, since it turns into either, according to need.

Ten milligrams of DHEA is pretty safe for men, the most common side effects are pimples, oily skin, and sex dreams.

If your thyroid is very low, you should be cautious with the DHEA, because stress hormones can cause it to turn to estrogen. 5 mg of DHEA taken with a little olive oil or butter can have a noticeable effect on your mood and muscle tone in a few hours.

[ORAL OR TOPICAL USE] Orally.

If your thyroid is very low, you should be cautious with the DHEA, because stress hormones can cause it to turn to estrogen. 5 mg of DHEA taken with a little olive oil or butter can have a noticeable effect on your mood and muscle tone in a few hours.

[15mg DHEA and 5mg testosterone every day for a woman] DHEA and testosterone at those doses are likely to grow whiskers. 5 mg. of testosterone is about ten times what a woman produces in a day, and is about what a muscular young man produces.
DHT
The special difference between testosterone and DHT is that testosterone is easily aromatized into estrogen, and DHT isn't. There are several ways that the body can dispose of estrogen, but I haven't heard of that way of inactivating it; I don't think it happens in the body.'

I think it was the drug industry, thinking of villains [DHT=BAD] to justify their otherwise crazy treatments.

I haven't heard of any bad effects from DHT, but that might be because it's so rarely used. The liver problems I've heard about have always involved slightly modified molecules.

A little DHT should be safe, but I don't think mesterolone is safe in any quantity.
Diabetes
I have known people who believed they had insulin deficiency, who recovered completely. The pancreas beta cells can regenerate quickly, polyunsaturated fats are continually damaging them.

The T3 component of the thyroid hormone makes muscles and other tissues oxidize sugar. Calcium, sodium, and aspirin are other things that increase the ability to use glucose.
Diet (general)
Vitamins and trace minerals have to increase proportionally as the metabolic rate increases.

There isn't enough information to judge, but a fair part of the carbohydrate should be in the form of sucrose, fructose, and/or lactose. If it's well cooked, and eaten with butter, it's probably safe for many people.

When starch is well cooked, and eaten with some fat and the essential nutrients, it's safe, except that it's more likely than sugar to produce fat, and isn't as effective for mineral balance.

I used to drink at least a gallon of 2% or 3% milk daily, and often ate more than 5000 calories, but when I'm completely sedentary for more than ten hours daily, my energy requirement is much lower. The calorie intake should be balanced to your heat production and activity.

[NON-MAGICAL MUSHROOMS] Since reading about the chemicals in mushrooms I stopped eating them, but using them occasionally is o.k., probably better than many vegetables.

[THYROID FROM FOOD] Yes, people used to get very significant amounts from fish heads, chicken necks, various stews and sausages. I knew Norwegians who lived in fishing villages and ate fish head soup every week who said all their relatives were healthy into their 90s.

If your temperature increases quickly after eating, that's good. I often eat a kilogram or more of oranges in a day, 150 grams of sugar per day wouldn't be excessive.

Orange juice and other sweet fruits (with very little starch) would be best. The muscle meats and starches don't provide a good balance of minerals and amino acids (high in phosphate, tryptophan, and cysteine, for example). Shellfish provide trace minerals that are often lacking from other foods. Mercury content is high in the big (old) fish, but not in the small shellfish or small fish such as cod and sole. You are probably deficient in calcium, so gradually adding cheese, eggs, and milk could be helpful.

Yes, squid is very good, with selenium, copper, etc. Some people say that goat's milk is good after they have had trouble with cow's milk. The food the animals eat can contribute allergens to the milk. I use pasteurized milk because the dairies in this region with raw milk happen to use feed that give the milk a bad taste. If you think you might have a real milk allergy, you should start with just a drop or a sip. Adding sugar or honey (if you aren't allergic to honey) will decrease any allergic reaction to the milk.

There isn't any MSG in gelatin, but the purity of the product is important. It's best when you extract it yourself, in things like ox-tail soup. Sugar helps the thyroid function, so can improve your blood sugar stability. Hypothyroid people are sensitive to even small amounts of lactic acid, since it tends to deplete the liver's glycogen stores. Squid amino acids are similar to other muscles, but the trace minerals are helpful.

[Gelatin-rich meats] Lamb shanks, pigs' feet, various joint bones, and boiled chicken, if the fat is skimmed off.

Caffeine increases your metabolic rate, so it's important to take it with food, including enough sugar. Coffee and cocoa are very good magnesium sources. Cocoa contains both bromocriptine and caffeine, bromocriptine seems to be more stimulating to the heart than to the brain.

Some sea salt is refined, by sequential evaporation, until it's very pure; either kind of pure white salt without additives is good.

Buckwheat is considered to be inflammatory. Potatoes are allergenic for quite a few people; honey (depending on the plants the bees used) and mangoes are other things to consider [as allergens].

Since cholesterol is the source of progesterone and testosterone (and pregnenolone, DHEA, etc.), and sugar increases it, having fruit rather than starch might increase the hormones. Those hormones, antagonistic to cortisol, can help to reduce waist fat. Chard, collard, and kale are good greens.

Usually the low carbohydrate diets have a high ratio of phosphate to calcium, and I suspect that your present diet does, too. If you powder some eggshells, that's the best way to supplement it, but two quarts of milk per day would be best, providing adequate protein and a safe ratio of P to Ca. Seafood, especially oysters, shrimp, squid, etc., would provide the iodine and selenium you need for good thyroid regulation. Increasing fruits in place of bread would increase blood sugar stability, and would provide vitamin C in a safer form. Taking your temperature before and after breakfast helps to interpret your circadian hormone cycle---hypothyroid people often have very high adrenaline, cortisol, and other stress hormones during the night, causing the temperature to be higher before breakfast than after. A daily raw carrot often helps to balance progesterone, cortisol, and estrogen, by improving intestine-liver functions.

I think it's good to choose foods with a high ratio of calcium to phosphorous. Supplementing calcium (and often vitamin D is needed too) is usually necessary with the typical modern diet.

No, it's just bad tasting dry meat [LIVER POWDER].

It's best to have more calcium than phosphate, and your diet is deficient in calcium, and heavy on phosphate, and that by itself can cause serious stress. Cheese would be a good way to get enough calcium, if you don't use milk. Eating protein by itself can cause a big surge of cortisol. Preceding the protein with some carbohydrate makes the protein go farther, otherwise under the influence of cortisol a lot of protein is used just for energy. Your diet might below in vitamin A, so it would be better to have eggs for breakfast,preceded with a generous amount of orange juice. Bananas can be seriously allergenic, apples are allergenic for some people, but not as intensely as bananas. Well cooked potatoes, with butter or cream,are a very good way to get carbohydrate, if you aren't allergic to them, because they contain a good balance of amino acids, too, as well as minerals and B vitamins.

I normally use pasteurized (and homogenized) milk, and I know people who do best when they use ultrapasteurized milk, and many people who, especially in certain seasons, don't tolerate raw milk. Cows' bacteria change according to what they are eating, and sometimes even the low level of bacteria in pasteurized milk can upset the person's intestinal balance of bacteria. I advise against eating the solid parts of coconut, as a regular part of the diet, and recommend the deodorized refined oil, because so many people are allergic to the proteins (and starches) of coconut. My November newsletter, below, will explain why people tend to lose weight on milk and sugar.

Although we can make our own fats from sugars, I think it's good to have some fat in our food, because of its effects on the intestine especially. Experiments on an isolated loop of intestine, measuring the nutrients entering the bloodstream, showed that relatively simplified mixtures of nutrients were poorly digested. Fat, protein, sugars, and minerals, in combination, activated the intestine, increasing the digestion of all of them, when they were present at the same time. If the fats are mostly saturated, as in butter, coconut oil, or beef or lamb fat, roughly a third of the calories is good, but the ideal proportion probably depends on the specific foods and the person's level of activity. Increasing either fat or sugar can have some specific therapeutic effects, but when more information becomes available about the composition of particular fruits, I suspect that the ideal balance of nutrients will lean toward the sugars, supported by ketoacids and short-chain saturated fats. The polyunsaturated fatty acids, which break down into toxic fragments and free radicals and prostaglandin-like chemicals, are--along with bacterial toxins produced in the intestine--the source of the main inflammatory and degenerative problems. Sugar and the minerals in fruits are fairly effective in keeping free fatty acids from being released from our tissues, and the fats we synthesize from them are saturated, and aren't likely to be stored as excess fat, because they don't suppress metabolism (as polyunsaturated fats and some amino acids do). The minerals of fruits and milk contribute to metabolic activation, and prevention of free-radical damage.

For a while, the vitamin A is very important, and the PUFA isn't crucial in the short term, so 2 or 3 eggs would be o.k., though in the longer run it's good to eat liver about twice a month, limiting the daily eggs to one or two. The type of cheese doesn't matter much as far as calcium goes. If you don't get much sunlight, and during the winter, a vitamin D supplement is necessary to use the calcium effectively. Plain white rice, well cooked, with butter is o.k. The calcium, vitamin D and vitamin A will greatly improve your immunity,the colostrum wouldn't be necessary.

The fats in meat and cheese can be minimized by choosing low fat types, and skimmed or 1% milk can be used.

I find that I need almost a pint of orange juice to balance one egg.

Small meals help to increase the metabolic rate, single big meals increase fat storage.

There are just occasional intervals when I'm not eating---cafe con leche several times a day, other things in between.

Frequent meals are helpful during hypothyroidism, and help to prevent obesity, but when the thyroid and liver are working, 2, 3, or 4 meals are good. For me, 2 meals and some snacks are most convenient. Orange juice is good by itself.

Yes, as the metabolism gets more effective, you don't have to eat as often as when you are starting to change. At first, when glycogen isn't being stored, temperature will rise and fall situationally.

Yes, two to four times a month. (liver)

I cook it quickly in butter. (liver)

Over the years I averaged a gallon a day, and I liked to eat butter, fat meat, ice cream, and thick cream in my coffee, so 1% milk had enough fat. I didn't like the taste of skimmed milk, and the available 1% happens to be pasteurized. In Mexico when I get it from the farmer, I don't know how much fat it has, but on average it's probably similar.

Our foods usually contain enough PUFA, unavoidably, to make fats matter to some extent. After about twenty years of carefully avoiding them, I'm still getting about 2% of my fat as PUFA (beef, oysters, eggs, etc.). That's why I'm making an effort to increase my sugar intake, to displace some fat.

Until 2006 I was using mostly frozen pulp-free concentrate, then they introduced the enzyme process (for disposing of waste fiber, making it stay suspended in the juice), affecting even the 'pulp-free' type. So now I use only sweet oranges that I squeeze myself. US people don't realize how ridiculously degraded their standard of living has become. Nutrition is political economical. The governments tell people to eat beans and bread for a reason. I use coca cola as a fill-in when I can't get oranges.

Normally, I usually have around 400 grams of carbohydrate. I have about 3 quarts of milk, varying amounts of orange juice (probably over a quart on average), eggs, and about 200 grams of meat or fish, with other things such as coca cola, cheese, ice cream, cheese cakes, some coconut oil and butter, occasional tropical fruits.

Eggs and orange juice, milk and oysters, and a raw carrot. For variety, smoked oysters, crab, cod fried in butter, ox-tail soup, parmigiano reggiano, sapotas, lychees, liver. Completely avoiding unsaturated fats, such as canola and mayonnaise, and minimizing beans, cereals, and vegetables.

Bananas and jack-fruit are strong allergens, possibly because of their cultivation methods. Mangos, apples, and pears are allergenic to some people. Poorly ripened fruits of all sorts should be avoided.

Usually they are o.k. [PASTEURIZED FRUIT JUICE]

There can be a great difference between eggs from chickens that really have adequate pasture, and the standard ones, but the labels aren't likely to contain enough information. 'Organic-free range' chickens in the US are usually fed soy and corn in a crowded outdoor pen. In the US I seldom eat more than one large egg per day, in Mexico where I know where the chickens live and what they eat, I eat more of them.

The difference isn't enough to worry about. [RAW OR PASTEURIZED MILK]

It's o.k. [HOMOGENIZED MILK]

It's mostly from large fat meals, at first, but then it is increased by stress, and builds up over time. [AMOUNT OF FAT EATEN PER MEAL TO ACTIVATE THE RANDLE CYCLE, EVEN IF IT'S SATURATED]

The carotene in sweet potatoes can make them harder to digest. Well cooked white potatoes, such as russets, are very nutritious, and the (cooked) juice is just something for people with extreme metabolic or digestive problems. The juicer I had was the kind that's commonly used for juicing carrots, and it was inexpensive. I don't think it was anything near 700 watts, that's nearly a horsepower, more than enough for a big cement mixer.

I think soft boiling eggs is probably best. Scrambling them probably does cause some heat damage, but the difference in vitamin content is too small to matter

[Low testosterone, high cholesterol] The problem with chicken is that the fat is highly unsaturated, and the meat provides very little calcium. Milk and cheese have a much better ratio of calcium to phosphate. Having the carrots raw (shredded, with a little olive oil, vinegar, and salt) would help with the hormone balance, and protect the intestine against inflammation. Supplementing pregnenolone wouldn't have the risk of the DHEA being converted to estrogen, which tends to happen when thyroid function is low. A small supplement of Armour thyroid or the equivalent could quickly lower the cholesterol, and since cholesterol is converted by thyroid into pregnenolone and DHEA, that would probably help the testosterone. Some shellfish (oysters, shrimp, squid, etc.) or low fat fish would provide trace minerals that might be lacking in your diet. Several eggs per week, or liver once a week, can help with other nutrients that are probably deficient in your present foods. Well cooked potatoes, with butter or cream, fruit, and well cooked greens are other foods have vitamins and minerals that are helpful.
Dilated Pupils
I would emphasize milk and orange juice, and some salty things, such as consomme or pork rinds (both with a lot of gelatin). Over a period of a few weeks, it helps the thyroid, pituitary, and liver to adjust. If the thyroid is low, estrogen is slow to be eliminated.

Temperature and pulse rate are important to watch; when the stress hormones are lower, they will increase after breakfast, and stay up until late afternoon.

The temperature rise during the day is the most important thing, since nocturnal stress hormones can give a misleading impression in the morning. Resting pulse rate is another good indicator. Milk and cheese are the best calcium sources.
Eczema
Is he getting enough calcium? Liver and thyroid would be better than trying to use separate vitamins---vitamin A deficiency is the most likely, but some B vitamins could be involved, and a vitamin A supplement can increase the need for thyroid hormone, which is increased anyway during the winter.
Eggs
[RAW EGG YOLKS OK?] Yes, eggnogs for example.

To use the protein of 2 eggs efficiently it would be good to have a glass of milk and a large glass of orange juice.
Electric sensations
Several things associated with that include reflexes from intestinal inflammation, hypothyroidism, and a pantothenic acid deficiency.
Emodin
It's hard now (since the FDA's anticascara action) to find a standardized aged cascara product, but Western Botanical and (in Italy) Farmalabor are two sources that I know of. (Naturlich Kost Ko-op in Millersburg, Ohio, has cascara, but I think FDA is currently preventing them from doing business.) The Chinese rhubarb products are probably standardized, but I have never used them. An amount slightly less than a laxative dose has beneficial systemic effects.
Exercise
I think periods of intense muscular exertion should be limited to 20 or 30 seconds, followed by rest periods. Otherwise, T3 falls and the stress signals rise. If mental activity has a sense of obligation, of being pushed, it can raise the same stress mediators (serotonin, TSH, prolactin, CRH, cortisol, etc.), but if the attitude is one of opening and exploring new possibilities, it activates restorative processes throughout the body.

Concentric resistance training has an anabolic effect on the whole body. Sprinting is probably o.k. Endurance exercise is the worst. I don't think martial arts are necessarily too stressful.

A high protein diet is helpful, and avoiding polyunsaturated fats helps to increase testosterone (coconut oil, butter, maybe MCT instead). Excess tryptophan can promote the catabolic cortisol, so supplementing gelatin might be helpful.

Orange juice is very helpful, maybe some salty thing; I don't think niacinamide would be necessary, though it would be an interesting experiment.

[Do you consider stretching or yoga healthy? Or lifting weights or sprinting infrequently for that matter?] Those can all be helpful. The two things that most often make exercise harmful are activity that keeps the lactic acid high chronically, and "eccentric" exercise, in which muscles are stretched while contracting, as in running downhill.

[So to clarify, lifting weights with only concentric exercises, while making sure to not get out of breath would be the best practice? Does high intensity/low volume produce greater lactic acid then high volume/low intensity?] If volume refers to the mass of muscle involved, probably not, depending on the exact intensities and volumes.
Ten pound dumbells, lifted quickly for 30 to 60 seconds, for example, is usually good for increasing the anabolic and protective hormones.

I think intermittent training is good if it avoids increased cortisol. Some nutrients, like vitamin K, can be stored in the fat and liver for a long time. Intense stress activates epigenetic processes that I think are hard to reverse. Temporary excess of some nutrients can probably help to restore processes to normal, or to higher functional levels. Deprivation increases the ability to tolerate deprivation. The mind is always involved, with imagination being part of the body-forming processes, and it's important to keep the whole life development in mind.
Fasting
After the liver's glycogen is depleted, fasting destroys the tissues, starting with the thymus, then the muscles and liver.
Ferritin
High ferritin suggests that there's continuing inflammation. Iron and calcium interact, so it might be worth having your parathyroid hormone tested. Despite your good vitamin D, you might not be getting enough calcium in relation to phosphate, and elevated PTH can cause generalized inflammation. Safe antiinflammatory things would be aspirin, calcium carbonate, coffee especially when taken with meat or eggs, salt or baking soda, and sugar.
In the US and Canada, I have noticed that the "normal range" for prolactin has been expanded upward, after a period in the '80s when it was lowered. I think this reflects a change in the population, from estrogen and PUFA, for example, and that the lower range was better for judging health.
Although I think knowing your PTH and free fatty acids will be useful (in judging use of calcium, sugar, aspirin, niacinamide, etc.), another test that could help to clarify the nature of the inflammation would be the serum interleukin-18, since it's associated with liver damage and increased ferritin, and symptoms of inflammation. Since TSH increases IL-18, finding it elevated would be another argument for keeping your TSH very low.
Flowers of sulfur
Flowers of sulfur, USP (or precipitated sulfur powder) can be mixed with a little water and applied topically to eliminate yeast...since the yeast live in water, they can interact immediately with the sulfur when it's in water.

I used a pinch, less than a sixteenth of a teaspoonful, putting it on my tongue and washing it down, just 3 or 4 days in a row. But a daily raw carrot is usually as effective, and can be used continuously.

I think the first safer thing would be flowers of sulfur for about 3 days, then the herbs [wormwood, black walnut hull and cloves] if you don't see results with the sulfur.
Fluoride
It's good to avoid fluoridated water as far as possible. Certain forms of bromine, including bromate and polybrominated biphenyls, are definitely toxic, but simple bromide isn't very toxic; it took large amounts of Bromo-Seltzer used for a long time to produce harmful effects, hundreds of milligrams per day. Seawater contains bromide, so all seafood contains a lot; milk and meat naturally contain it, because soil generally contains a moderate amount. A few of the promoters of large iodine supplements--Abraham, Flechas, and Brownstein--are giving a wrong impression of bromine.

[FLUORIDE IN SHOWERS]I don't think it's a problem. The soaps and shampoos people use are worse problems. Just washing the skin with pure soap alters the skin's endocrine function for days. and doing it every day is an "endocrine disrupter," even if there are no toxic additives in the soap.
Freckles
Yes, the pigment cells are very mobile--they can swim through solid tissue at a surprising speed, more than a centimeter per day, if the skin is warm, and if they are motivated. Sometimes Wikipedia is stupidly dogmatic.
Fructose
I think that's one of its basic protective effects, and I think it increases it in the brain, too. [LIVER, MUSCLE, BRAIN GLYCOGEN]

Here's a currently often cited article which claimed to show that fructose causes 'insulin resistance' compared to a starch diet, but careful reading would show that it confirms the powerful protective effect of fructose (and sucrose), since if the greater weight gain of the starch eaters continued beyond the short 5 weeks of the experiment, after a year the starchy rats would have weighed twice as much as the lean sugar eaters. The fructose limits insulin secretion, but intensifies metabolism, burning calories faster. Several abstracts below touch on the subject. [PEAT'S NEWSLETTER 'SUGAR ISSUES' GOES OVER THIS IN DETAIL]

The fructose cult generalizes crazily from any apparent evidence they can find [FRUCTOSE MALABSORPTION].
Fruit
Corossol, lychee, longan, guaba, papaya, pawpaw, sapota, guanabana. Some frozen and canned fruits are good; applesauce, corossol, guanabana, longans, and lychees for example.

The fruits you mention all seriously increase serotonin. A sore throat is a quick effect, but some people get migraines from them. The pectin in raw apples causes the intestine to release serotonin into the blood, so well cooked apples have much less effect. Fruits contain almost no salicylic acid.

[I think you have stated that the best fruits, if properly grown, are oranges, watermelons, and grapes. Is guava close to them in quality?] Yes, they rank with oranges for their protective qualities.
Fruit diet (vegan, veganism)
For best resistance to stress, more protein is desirable.
Fruit Juice
A few other juices [than orange juice] are good, for example watermelon. Some fruits contain things that affect the hormones.

Apple juice can be very good, but much of it is made from spoiling apples, so there's a risk of fungal content.
Fungi
[On whether the amount of fungi related toxins (considered high in some studies on coconut oil) is of concern in coconut oil and coffee.] Since animal studies show good health effects of both of them, and bad effects of other foods such as peanuts, wheat, and corn, the contamination is probably low. Hexane extraction seems to eliminate it, and it apparently declines in stored oil with time.
Gelatin
[FLUORIDE IN GELATIN] The only analysis of gelatin that I have seen showed very little fluoride. Since most of the fluoride in an animal is concentrated in the bones, and gelatin is made from skin, it probably doesn't contain much.

For most people it's o.k. to eat it undissolved, but it causes gas for some people.
I usually cook the ox-tail with just enough water to cover it, for about four hours, until the meat comes off the bone easily. It makes a very concentrated gelatin solution.

I haven't had experience with Knox gelatin, I have mostly used either Great Lakes or Gelatin Innovations brands, which are economical by the pound. When I'm not sure of the origin of the pork, I heat the pork rinds in coconut oil and then drain the oil off, to reduce the PUFA.

Beef gelatin is available from Great Lakes; some people say they have trouble digesting the pork gelatin. Because the pork rinds contain a lot of fat, which in pork is highly unsaturated, I re-heat mine in coconut oil and then drain them well, to reduce the amount of polyunsaturated fat. Since the polyunsaturated fats interfere with energy production and promote inflammation, I think it's better to avoid them. (They interfere with thyroid and progesterone, and activate estrogen production.)
Genes
[on SNPs that have been linked to autism, chronic fatigue etc. (Yasko)] Yes, a few slow enzyme systems could make the system easier to disrupt.

[Can some people be genetically 'programmed' to have high stress hormones to compensate for hypothyroidism?] The population has a range of those effects, it just takes longer to change them when they are strongly imprinted.
Gluten
[Do you think everyone should avoid gluten?] Yes.
Gout/High Uric Acid
Raw carrot or (boiled) bamboo shoots and aspirin, to lower endotoxin absorption.
Grains
Masa harina (best), white rice or oats, and brown rice. The phytic acid in the oats block absorption of much of the calcium; cooking the oats much longer than usual might improve its nutritional value.
Gums
[Bleeding gums] It's usually a sign of stress, often from over-growth of bacteria in the upper intestine. A daily raw carrot, shredded with a little vinegar and olive oil, can suppress bacteria.

[Bleeding gums] Melting a little coconut oil in the mouth frequently during the day can be effective, because it's antiseptic (and swallowing some at intervals during the day contributes to disinfecting the intestine). Vitamins D and K help some people. The problem usually involves endotoxin absorption, so small daily amounts of minocycline help some people. Putting bamboo shoots through a shredding food processor, so they don't take much chewing, might help to reduce endotoxin. Checking the thyroid is important.
Hair
Thyroid makes the hair strong, a high metabolic rate can create a static field that helps it to stand up.

Fast, vigorous hair growth tends to make it straighter (a rounder shaft) [STRAIGHT HAIR FROM PROGESTERONE].

[HAIR COLOR] Do you know how your thyroid function is? Thyroid regulates copper assimilation, and also the hormones that regulate pigment.
I found that applying a weak solution of copper just once would restore color immediately to eyebrows, or to about 10% of sideburn hairs, apparently because the very long-lived hairs have to be in the right phase of growth, and eyebrows, with a very short life, seem to stay receptive to the stimulation. But I also found that a slightly too strong solution could cause a mole to develop almost instantly, with an invasion of pigment cells. I think a safer alternative would be to supplement, either topically or orally, a little DHEA.

[Do you think increasing hair loss from pregnenolone and aspirin is possible?] No.
Hallucinations
There's a point at which thoughts flow freely and luminously, but meaningfully, that can happen when nutrients and hormones are optimal; coffee and vitamin B1 support that kind of function. Hallucination suggests that there is distortion in their meaning, probably when energy isn't being produced as fast as it's used.
Headaches
[Headaches from supplements] Have you tried a large oral dose of progesterone? A very large amount of sugar will usually relieve a migraine; ice cream (about a quart) or milk shakes with some fat and protein make it easier to assimilate the sugar without stomach upset. Caffeine sometimes makes the aspirin and sugar more effective. Did any of the magnesium chloride get on your lips? In my own migraine experience, I found that a very small amount of either vitamin A or magnesium chloride could cause big headaches for two or three days. If I had put vitamin A anywhere on my face or arms, enough would touch my lips to cause the headache. It wasn't the vitamin A or magnesium itself that did it, but some very powerful allergen in the chemically manufactured products. It's possible that some such substance has entered the T3 during its manufacture, so using a different brand might avoid the effect. What brands of T3 and desiccated have you used? Is cyproheptadine available where you are? It's probably the safest of the antiserotonin drugs; here are some articles about it.

I think prolactin and TSH would be worth checking. I have had bad headaches when I used vitamin A orally, and even getting a little on my lips was enough to do it. It could be that the Nutrisorb-A was the cause, if you used it orally. I use it only on my legs and feet.
Heart
Vitamins D and K, and calcium are important for stabilizing the heart rhythm. Estrogen tends to cause chemical hyperventilation (loss of carbon dioxide), which increases blood viscosity and the tendency toward atrial fibrillation. Progesterone and those other steroids have opposite effects (progesterone is a natural aldosterone antagonist, too). Thyroid is essential for helping cells to retain magnesium. A quart or two of milk, and a glass or two of orange juice every day helps with the main stabilizing minerals, but it's good to have sea food once a week, especially shell fish, for the trace minerals.
Heavy Metals
Milk, orange juice, and coffee safely accelerate the removal of heavy metals from the tissues. Everyone's body accumulates PUFA's, which progressively interfere with metabolism and raise TSH. Iron, as well as other heavy metals (except for copper) tends to accumulate. Drinking coffee also helps to shift the hormone balance in the right direction.

Raising the body temperature and using chelators can mobilize things, but it can increase the damage they do on the way out. The liver doesn't store toxins for more than a few hours, and coffee enemas are intended to intensely stimulate the liver. Oral coffee lets the caffeine circulate slowly, keeping everything moderately active, and with orange juice, the mobilized metals are kept from injuring things until they are excreted.

[Question: Does the body quickly or gradually get rid of DMPS or DMSA chelating agents? I have many people who nearly died when they took DMPS or DMSA. But, I should think that the body would eventually detox it. What do you think?] The idea of using it to remove metals is that it leaves the body rapidly. The damage produced by moving the metals around could be fairly permanent, but the chelator leaves very quickly. Environmental pollutants, food fats, and cosmetics are the things people should worry about accumulating in their tissues.
HFCS
I prefer Mexican coke with real sugar (it tastes very different), but metabolically there isn't much difference.
High Metabolism
[on high metabolic rate - very high temps and pulse - which is a result of low thyroid] About your high metabolic rate and high temperature: In my teens and twenties, I needed about 8000 calories per day when I was physically active, about 4000 to 5000 when I was sedentary, but after I took thyroid, I needed only about half as many calories. Thyroid is the basic regulator of blood glucose, and it causes it to be fully oxidized for energy, so that it produces ATP efficiently, on relatively few calories. If blood glucose falls, because it's being used very quickly, the body responds with stress hormones, including glucagon, adrenalin, and cortisol. They cause fat and protein to be burned for energy, while in hypothyroidism, glucose can still be used inefficiently for glycolysis, producing lactic acid, displacing bicarbonate and carbon dioxide. This causes mineral imbalances, with effects including cramps and nerve-muscle tension, which produce heat and waste energy. When you first start taking thyroid again, your tissues will need some extra magnesium, during the time when the dose is increasing, and when the mineral balance is restored your temperature and metabolic rate might decrease a little. Orange juice, milk, and coffee are good for the main minerals, while salting your food to taste.

Supplementing thyroid can sometimes reduce the rate of metabolism, by allowing cells to retain enough magnesium, which stabilizes ATP.

[WHITE SUGAR BAD IDEA WHEN METABOLISM IS HIGH?] But sometimes it can lower the stress hormones, so it requires experimenting

I think the mineral and vitamin requirements do increase with calorie requirement.
High Prolactin
Either vitex or bromocriptine would probably stop it, but I think it's probably caused by mild hypothyroidism, and that the best way to handle it would be with a thyroid supplement, and that would probably help your libido too.

Prolactin and TSH tend to increase together, so when you didn't need the prolactin to be high, the TSH--which might have been keeping your thyroid active despite high estrogen--could have decreased, letting the gland be suppressed by estrogen (and maybe PUFA, from the nuts and any non-ruminant meats). Optimally, the TSH should be very low, but the thyroid gland should keep functioning without needing much stimulation.

Salt and thyroid usually lower it, but you might want to try a little vitamin B6; even a small amount, about 10 mg per day, can lower prolactin.
Honey
I haven't had any experience with manuka. Some honey can be allergenic, so it's good to look for a mild one; white sugar is probably similar, with less allergy risk.
Hormone Creams
[Propylene glycol, cetearyl alcohol and plain alcohol in hormone creams] Plain alcohol is best, but in a cream the others are o.k.
Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (hypromellose)
I think it's good to avoid it when possible; there's an article by Gerhart Volkheimer, on persorption, that explains how particulate matter of all sorts can enter the blood stream from the intestine.
Hypothyroidism
[why do people have such different problems due to hypothyroidism?] I think early life imprinting and habitual diet can cause such very different reactions to a thyroid deficiency.
Ice cream (recipe)
I blend an egg (warmed to 40 degrees C) with a cup of sugar (also warmed) and a cup of coconut oil until it's smoothly emulsified, and maybe half a cup of powdered milk for extra texture, then add milk to fill the blender (total volume a little over a liter), with strong coffee or orange juice for flavor, or other fruit or vanilla, etc. The high oil content, and powdered milk, make it freeze without crystallizing, so the ice cream machine isn't necessary.
Inhibition
Inhibition occurs when the proteins are in a relatively acidic (electron-withdrawn, electronegative) state, because of the conditioning factors, including high ATP, CO2, and ketone and quinone groups associated with them, and the relative exclusion of disordering groups and ions, such as hydroxyls, phosphate, and sodium. http://www.lsbu.ac.uk/water/
Intestine/Allergy
[Among the things that reduce intestinal permeability, do you think the daily raw carrot is among the most effective?] And thyroid and good complete nutrition.

Even traces of allergens in foods or supplements can do that [CONGESTION/STUFFED UP NOSE], and depending on the intestinal transit time, a single dose of an allergen can keep producing congestion for days.

It usually takes several days for the digestive system to adjust, with changes in the intestinal rhythm for example, and during that time things like headache and tooth sensitivity can increase. Increased calcium and fiber (raw carrots or boiled bamboo shoots, for example) can help.

Like the dark circles, a chronically plugged nostril is suggestive of an allergy, and it usually varies according to the intensity of the intestinal irritation of undigested food. Keeping notes on what you eat, you might notice increased stuffiness during the night after particular foods were eaten, though with some foods the congestion can take a couple of days to develop. Prolonged endurance exercise will usually slow the pulse because of adaptive inhibition of the thyroid. I have seen some people with the dark circles, fatigue, and other symptoms that stopped as soon as they stopped their daily running.

For people with really sensitive intestines or bad bacteria, starch should be zero.

Starches, preservatives, and antioxidants are likely to irritate,stearic acid isn't likely to be a problem.

It takes a few days for the intestine to change its rhythm of peristalsis, and a couple of weeks for the enzymes to adjust to a change of foods. A daily raw carrot helps it to adjust.

Until a few years ago, I would drink a couple of quarts of orange juice from pulp-free frozen concentrate every day, then I started noticing those allergy symptoms, and investigated their production processes. They had recently introduced an enzyme technology to make pulp more water soluble. For years, it had been used to dispose of massive amounts of otherwise waste pulp by putting it into the 'creamy' or 'home style' pulpy juices, but then suddenly the relatively clear so-called pulp-free juice began leaving a residue on glasses, and resisting passage through filter paper, besides causing allergy symptoms. For several decades I have watched as traditionally safe foods have been altered, and have found that many people have developed allergic problems when their favorite foods were changed by new technologies. Since intestinal bacteria affect the allergenicity of foods that are poorly digested, changing the flora can often relieve the symptoms. Raw carrot contains some antibiotics that can be helpful; oil and vinegar can increase the germicidal effects. It's important to use oil and vinegar that aren't allergenic themselves. Hypothyroidism increases the susceptibility to many foods.

Since the fiber [CARROT] will delay digestion and reduce absorption of other foods, I think it's best to eat it between meals, usually in the afternoon.

Yes, the plain carrot is good. For people who want more antimicrobial effect, the saturated fats and vinegar are helpful.

The fructose content of pears is probably helpful, but you should watch for what effect it might be having on your intestine, from the pectin. Pectin tends to increase serotonin by irritating the intestine. Allergies can increase your blood glucose, so you should watch for effects, usually the next day, sometimes extending for two or three days, from foods that are commonly allergenic, such as tomato sauce and spaghetti; unrefined coconut oil is a possible allergen, too. Do you use any aspirin?

Checking your temperature when you wake up, then about an hour after breakfast, can give you an idea of your thyroid status, it should get up to about 98.5 by mid-morning. With restful sleep, the waking temperature is somewhat low; poor sleep, with high stress hormones, can cause the waking temperature to be high. 

The intestine is a potential source of reabsorbed estrogen, and a daily raw carrot (grated or shredded, with a little olive oil, vinegar, salt) helps to lower excess estrogen (and endotoxin produced by bacteria). While lowering estrogen, it is likely to lower cortisol and increase progesterone.

Have you experimented with milk from different sources? Sometimes the goats or cows eat allergenic things, or have bacteria that disturb the intestine. Have you tried boiled or ultrapasteurized milk? Is the cheese the original Parmigiano Reggiano? If you can list all the foods that you have had in the last day or two, I might see some things that are affecting your hormones. Anything that irritates your intestine or increases bacterial activity in the small intestine can increase the absorption of bacterial endotoxin, and that lowers testosterone and thyroid hormone, and increases cortisol. Reducing endotoxin might be all it takes to correct the hormones. Have you had blood tests for thyroid or other hormones?

Sometimes goats find allergenic weeds when they graze, so trying different kinds of milk, or commercial ultrapasteurized milk could help.

I think calcium glucarate can be protective in some circumstances, but manufactured organic compounds (glucaric acid) often contain allergenic impurities. I practically stopped eating all cruciferous vegetables, largely because of that sort of compound---Indoles as a class are very risky. Thyroid and sugars, and saturated fats such as coconut oil, usually help to increase testosterone.

Local bacteria are usually involved in the white tongue, but typically the problem is mainly in the intestine. I have experimented with the old-fashioned 'intestinal disinfectant' camphoric acid (it used to be a common pharmaceutical, 80 to 100 years ago), and when I would swallow about 100 to 200 mg of it in the evening, I would wake up with a perfectly clean tongue, not a bit of the white. Bamboo shoots, raw carrot, and flowers of sulfur are other antiseptics that can reduce the white tongue.

Cellulose is the safe fiber, and (boiled) bamboo shoots are another safe fiber. My May newsletter, below, has some information about the effects of other fibers, including pectin. If the fruits don't cause digestive problems, such as gas, then the fiber is good. Apples and pears are often so fibrous (because of incomplete ripening) that the fiber can be harmful.

They aren't necessary [FIBER], for example milk supports abundant bacterial growth that creates bulk, but when there are digestive and hormonal problems because of bad intestinal flora, the fibers of carrot and bamboo shoots have a disinfecting action. The carrots must be raw for that effect.
Iodine
Lugol's solution is sometimes helpful for an inflammation, but it's risky when there might be a thyroid problem.

Short term use of iodide is safe at a few milligrams per day, but chronic intake of even one mg. per day increases the risk of thyroiditis.
Iron
Have you had your thyroid checked? Abnormal ferritin can result from thyroid malfunction.

Uric acid is important as an antioxidant. High ferritin doesn't directly imply high iron stores, it has a defensive effect, and can be increased by inflammation. TSH promotes inflammation. Hypothyroidism usually involves low temperature of the extremities, and the bones of the arms and legs form red cells slowly at low temperature, so it's possible that ferritin is involved in an adaptive mechanism, too.

I assume that conventional medicine has misunderstood its role, I'm not sure that I can think of anything that conventional medicine doesn't misunderstand. Hypothyroidism increases inflammation and decreases kidney function; even protective antioxidants can become problems in themselves under some circumstances.Ferritin binds iron, and while it's bound it is less likely to produce random free radical damage. If there is inflammation in the liver or bone marrow, the inflammation can cause iron to be released, and ferritin apparently acts as a buffer, absorbing the released iron.

[IRON RICH FOODS WITH ORANGE JUICE, COFFEE & MILK] Although orange juice would tend to increase iron absorption, that combination hasn't been studied. It isn't an issue for most people, only someone with an iron overload issue. The copper in oysters is protective against iron excess.

[Proline/Gelatin and iron absorption] The tradition of adding either milk or lemon to tea has been known to protect against the tannins, by reducing reactivity in the case of lemon, or by combination in the cup with the milk protein (as defense against the carcinogenic tannins).

[All the studies i have seen claims that Heme iron absorption is not changed by other factors like tea and coffee. Do you know of any study that shows coffee inhibiting heme iron absorption? I found this study showing beef liver has 13 percent heme iron and beef meat has 64 % heme iron. If this is true then muscle meat is more harmful than liver in terms of iron absorption . http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19475341] I think that's true, that coffee affects mainly non-heme iron absorption. The heme has toxic effects, forming carbon monoxide, apart from the iron. As I understand it, the amount of non-heme iron that's absorbed increases with the extent of its reduction, with ferrous iron being absorbed much more than the ferric form. The presence of reductants in the food will increase absorption.

As long as your hemoglobin is o.k., I wouldn't use an iron supplement, because so many things can influence the amount of iron in the blood, even when there's enough in the liver and marrow. Have you been getting enough copper and other trace minerals in your diet? Including shellfish (oysters have a lot of iron as well as other trace minerals) and liver in your diet would be the safe way to increase your iron and hemoglobin. Did you have your hormones measured? High cortisol can reduce the amount of iron in the blood while increasing it in the liver.
Kefir
The neutral lactate salt is at least as toxic as the acid form, but each culture varies a little in the amount of acid formed. The enzyme that thickens the milk sometimes works with very little acid formed. How sour the kefir is suggests how much lactic acid is in it. There are types of yogurt that have much of the acidic whey drained out, that aren't a problem. A spoonful or two of acidic yogurt isn't harmful, but a cupful of the acidic type can be enough to deplete the liver's energy stores, because lactic acid is converted to glucose in the liver, requiring energy. The 'strained' type that isn't acidic is similar to cottage cheese and is safe.
Ketones & Ketogenic Diets
Ketones are very protective as a fuel, but the problem is that they are produced as a result of metabolic stress. If the liver is extremely good, it can store enough glycogen for a day, but chronic, frequent, stress usually damages the liver's ability to store glycogen.
Kidney
When there's existing kidney disease, supplementing thyroid and progesterone speeds recovery.
Knees
I've seen several grossly malfunctioning knees recover immediately (in from 1 to 12 hours) just with topical progesterone, but the first thing should be to make sure her calcium to phosphorus ratio is good, by having two quarts of low fat milk per day, or the equivalent in low fat cheese, with no grains, legumes, nuts, or muscle meats, and with some well cooked greens regularly. Vitamin K is important for calcium metabolism, too.
Leptin
I doubt that there is any biological significance in the idea of leptin resistance. Leptin promotes inflammation and cancer, so it might be good to be resistant to it, but I think the concept is mainly an outgrowth of the pharmaceutical industry's promotion of leptin as a cure for obesity.
Light
Incandescent bulbs have a continuous spectrum, luminous gases have intermittently distributed wavelengths. Orange and red are the metabolically most important wavelengths. I don't think the far infrared does anything special, besides heat. Ordinary incandescent bulbs have a slightly orange color compared to sunlight, and the bulbs I have mentioned are just slightly warmer in color, with very little blue, and more red. Ordinary incandescent bulbs are good, if there are enough of them, directed toward your skin.

It does suppress melatonin. I think the problem with light research is that many of them weren't using similar levels of light energy at the different wavelengths. I have tried sleeping with red light, and I didn't like it; but it can be equally effective, for maintaining blood sugar or reducing inflammation, if it shines only on the feet or legs. I think the u.v. lamps are good for use in the winter.

During the night all of the hormones of stress and inflammation rise, and the ice cream decreases them enough for you to stay asleep, but they still rise. Having more very bright light (several hundred watts of incandescent bulbs) in the hours from sundown until bedtime will lower them a little more. Since T3 is used up very quickly, allowing the proinflammatory TSH to rise during the night, it would help if you used Cynoplus at bedtime, instead of Cynomel. If you were taking 10 mcg of cynomel, then a third of a tablet of cynoplus would provide that, as well as the T4 that holds the TSH down longer. Having an egg every day, and liver once a week, will help to balance the effects of the thyroid hormone, which increases your need for vitamins, especially vitamin A.

I use them (incandescent light bulbs) for keeping my area warm, instead of centrally heating the house. My view of the energy saving light bulbs is that putting a cork in the plug saves more energy (and doesn't contain mercury).

Having a larger proportion of your fat near bedtime often helps to get through the night without inflammation.

It varies with the season, but 8 to 8 1/2 hours is usually best.

Brighter light in the early evening [reducing night-time stress]

Blood sugar falls during the night, causing inflammatory mediators and adrenalin, etc., to increase. Sleeping with a wool cap and stockings can help. Having plenty of sugar just before bedtime, or if you wake during the night, will usually alleviate the night-stress problems.

[Does red light repair damage done just by U.V. light, or maybe also by X-rays?] By any irradiation, but it's most effective within the first hour.
The harm from the radiation can be interrupted most effectively right away, before the changes have been amplified and integrated with the system.

[Blue light reducing oral cancer growth] Plain incandescent bulbs have enough of the red spectrum to work. Blue light is slightly toxic, so like ultraviolet is can slow cell division, but its toxicity also causes inflammation. Red light reduces inflammation, but it tends to increase proliferation.

[Proximity of light] If it's comfortable it isn't harmful, but it's easy to get burned when they are so close. Your body temperature is likely to rise, otherwise I don't know of any problem from prolonged light (but even incandescent light does have some slightly harmful blue light, so you should watch your own reactions to it).

Bare skin is best; for effects on the nervous system, shining on head, face, neck and back is good.

[Does infrared light and red/orange light also increase the need for vitamin A?] Not as far as I know.

[LCD screens] People react differently to different screens. Keeping the room bright, and the screen not too bright, can reduce the eye strain. This person has very detailed information about them: http://www.conradbiologic.com/articles/SubliminalFlickerI.html

[As I add more and more incandescent lights to see how I feel, is there an approximate number of watts which is prudent to not go over?] The heat is the limiting factor, not the light.
Liver
Yes, beef liver has so much of the oily vitamins that it just takes an occasional meal to meet those requirements generously.
The charts have stopped giving its vitamin E content, and rarely mention vitamin K, but it's very good for those. Charts still don't reflect the intracellular (lipid soluble dehydro-) form of vitamin C, but liver is a good source of that too.

I made extracts myself, and there was a lot of it, but I didn't measure it exactly, just a few milligrams per kilo.

[Liver/oysters once a week versus every day - is it just convenience?] Convenience, because of the time preparing things.

[Do you think Argentina Liver Powder is okay for supplementing Vit B6?] Probably, but the dehydration probably damages it nutritionally.

[Vitamin E content of liver is low in USDA data] Overcooking destroys many nutrients. The vitamin E content is much lower in grain-fed beef than in grass-fed.
Liver (diseased)
Eliminating all PUFA would be the most important thing, and having lots of orange juice, other sugars including honey, and milk and gelatin. Cytomel, aspirin, acetazolamide, and progesterone all protect the liver and help to slow cancer growth. Some people use extremely large amounts of aspirin, which require supplements of vitamin K, to prevent bleeding. Fibrous foods such as bamboo shoots and laxatives such as cascara help to reduce the absorption of bowel toxins that promote cancer and burden the liver.
Long-term Benefits
Minimizing intestinal inflammation/endotoxin/excess iron, methionine, tryptophan consumption.
LSD
[long-term effects] It acts as a learning experience, and can affect your general attitudes; if the amount is excessive, causing depletion of brain glycogen, I think it can lead to prolonged defensive attitudes, probably with a rebound of serotonin.
Magnesium
Getting enough sodium in the diet helps to retain magnesium, but both of them are lost easily when thyroid function is low; when the thyroid status is good, the requirement for magnesium is easily met by ordinary foods. The things I most often recommend for magnesium are the water from boiling greens such as beet, chard, turnip and kale, and coffee. Magnesium carbonate is a very good supplement, except that it can cause intestinal irritation. People tell me that they don't have bowel irritation from magnesium glycinate. Either Mg chloride or Mg sulfate with baking soda can be absorbed through the skin.

Both carbonate and glycine are beneficial in themselves, but each of the compounds has its own impurities. Supplements of citrate have other effects on metabolism, that could be harmful.

I haven't tried magnesium salicylate, but most magnesium compounds have been seriously irritating to my intestine; I have mixed baking soda with salicylic acid, and it seems similar to aspirin. If the magnesium doesn't cause irritation, it would be a good form of salicylate. Magnesium salicylate is popular for arthritis, and it releases salicylic acid in the intestine and blood.

Cooked green leaves, or the water they were boiled in, is a very good source of magnesium, with other minerals in safe ratio. Coffee is another good magnesium source.Over 72 trace minerals from the Great Salt Lake, with 99% of the salt removed, would be dirty salt, without the salt.

I don't recommend the oxide, because it's very poorly absorbed, but the carbonate is well absorbed. I don't recommend chemical supplements of magnesium, though, because they all contain some manufacturing impurities that can cause bowel inflammation, such as hemorrhoids. Well cooked greens are very good sources, coffee and chocolate are, too.

[RDA for magnesium] With the average diet, that amount is enough. Good thyroid function, and plenty of calcium, potassium, and sodium can decrease the amount of magnesium needed.
Manganese
Yes, but occasional eggs, liver, oysters, etc., provide enough.
Meat
Meat contains too much phosphate, which destabilizes everything, and energy depletion has similar effects.

In the US, there is a widespread meat cult, that insists meat should be stored for two weeks before it's sold; it's convenient for the corporations that want everything to have an indefinitely long shelf-life, but it's bad for the public health. 150 years ago, when refrigeration was rare, the 'high' flavor of meat was considered to be good, and people who were used to eating the half rotten stuff shaped the meat culture, and people looked for a 'scientific' rationale for keeping meat in storage until it lost its fresh taste. The rationale is that it becomes tender, as the enzymes cause the meat to digest itself. That process starts after the glucose and glycogen in the muscle have been depleted, and the collagen and other proteins begin to be degraded. Besides losing the amino acid balance of fresh meat, the products include the cancer-promoting polyamines. Liver contains far more of the self-digesting enzymes than muscles do, and its glycogen is depleted in just a few hours. This is why liver in the US tastes so terrible. Since liver and eggs contain many of the same essential nutrients in high concentration, and eggs don't digest themselves, that's why I eat a few eggs in the US, despite their known high content of PUFA. When I can avoid the PUFA, I do; and in Mexico, liver and other meats aren't stored, except maybe in the supermarkets that serve foreigners.
Memory
[PHYSIOLOGY] I've been gradually clarifying my ideas about memory, and currently I'm putting more emphasis on the role of electrons in maintaining biological coherence, including the construction of a variably coherent model of the world, as we develop in it. I see it as being a very large generalization-like construction with spatial quality, with memories being constructed as needed for whatever situation we find ourselves in, somewhat like deductions from our present state. Helmut Schwartz showed that electrons (in a beam) have "memory," picking up a modulation and expressing it after a delay. I think that very flexible ability of electrons to be "modulated" is a central part of the memory process.
Migraines
Lots of sugar, without coffee, would be quicker for restoring blood sugar. At least a quart of milk shake or ice cream can provide the needed sugar in a form that can be assimilated quickly. 100 mg of progesterone in oil can usually stop it, by stopping the wastage of glucose.
Milk
I think it's a matter of watching for any effects associated with a particular product; if nothing is obvious, the fresher milk is preferable.

[ESTROGEN IN MILK] High estrogen, relative to progesterone, interferes with lactation, and the enzymes that convert estradiol to the less active estrone and estriol are increased by progesterone. The amount of estradiol in milk is usually much less than one microgram per liter, and it's concentrated in the cream, so low-fat milk has very little estrogen. The cow's diet is probably a more important factor in the estrogen content of milk than pregnancy. The information in that abstract isn't enough to tell whether the study was done properly.

[PROBLEMS WITH MILK] I know people who tolerate only the ultrapasteurized milk. What about cheeses?

Yes, I think bowel irritation is behind milk sensitivity.

I have been interested in the subject of "milk intolerance" for a long time, and have wondered why doctors in the US and England give it so much attention, while the people who drink the most milk, in the Samburu and Masai cultures, and the cultures of northern India, don't seem to have the problem. I doubt that this is a matter of genetic differences; for example this person: "I was recently diagnosed with lactose intolerance and so i had to eliminated milk and milk products from my diet. I live in the USA. However, on a recent trip to India, I had milk and all possible milk products there and it did not affect me at all! Has anyone else experienced this? Or does anyone have a possible explanation?"
http://p080.ezboard.com/flima16189frm15.showMessage?topicID=34.topic
When a woman or a cow eats an allergen, such as peanuts or soybeans, the allergens appear in the milk. Weeds in the pasture are another potential source of tainted milk. In Africa and India, milk production per cow is much lower than in the US, because they seldom give them anything but grass, or in India, hay, probably some fruit. Although insecticides such as lindane are no longer used in US dairies, most of the milk in commerce has synthetic vitamins (dissolved in corn oil) emulsified into the product, which could account for many of the bad reactions.

Goat milk contains more copper than cow milk, and copper is important for energy metabolism and blood formation.

[Powdered milk] It's not as good as fresh milk, or cheese, but when they aren't available, 100 grams (or more) would be a good addition to the diet, because of the high ratio of calcium to phosphate, as well as other nutrients.

Reduced milk is o.k. if the heat wasn't very high.
Milk of Magnesia
Milk of magnesia is very safe, but cascara has many protective biological effects.
Mind & Tissue
While I was (...) a psychology major, I did some surveys (1957) relating to creativity and types of thought and dreaming, following up some ideas I found in Brewster Ghiselin's book The Creative Process. I felt that the current US view of the brain as a computing device with nerves serving as wires and switches was completely inappropriate, even for understanding things such as the perception of odors and musical pitch, and around that time a practical study of creativity was published, in a book called Synectics, and I saw that Pavlov's colleague P.K. Anokhin had been developing a much better understanding of brain function. The fact that sensations and perception of space in dreams can be so convincing led me to feel that biological/metabolic processes in the brain reproduce in fairly direct or literal ways things in the external world, i.e., that our experience of internal colors and smells and sounds are probably a sort of electrochemical resonance within nerves---with a nerve and its surroundings, spatial parts of the brain, taking on energetic states with the frequencies that are closely analogous to the frequencies produced by the external objects, colors, chemical odors, sound vibrations, as well as other kinds of patterned relationships. If "photons" or electromagnetic interactions within the organism are the substance of consciousness, then the electronic properties of nutrients, hormones, and drugs are important, rather than their geometric form, as interpreted by the "lock-and-key" "receptor and ligand" doctrine. I think the active chemical in St. John's wort is hypericin, an anthroquine (very similar to emodin, in cascara, and to vitamin K and tetracycline), which is a large system of conjugated electrons, that interacts powerfully with our cellular regulatory systems. (...) I suspect that growing up with creativity involves opportunities that cause the brain to develop various sensitivities and resonances, and that the brain functioning in these ways calls up the energetic and hormonal resources that it needs, and ideally that includes an array of chemicals that enrich and intensify consciousness, allowing very complex internal experiences to be generated.

At any moment, one's position in the world is part of one's image of the world, and body awareness is part of our consciousness of our position. Being is the basic thing, and there is really no understanding separate from that, although there are symbolic patterns that can be manipulated as if they were separate from the substance, but that's just a matter of habitual attention. The "faint glass" people are identifying with the constructed story about life, rather than seeing it as an aspect of a single substance-awareness. Toes (and internal organs) are part of everything we do, making up part of the substance and meaning of things, except when indoctrination directs attention away from them.

Going to sleep and the few minutes after waking up are good times to see how things are working. Stresses and obligations shape the digestive and metabolic processes, and the rhythms of the intestine add to the shape of the day's thoughts. There are usually about 16 small cycles during a day, and watching for them can make things more spontaneous.

Besides articles in psychology and medical journals, the ultradian cycles have been described from a variety of perspectives. R.O Becker discussed weak natural electromagnetic rhythms, Frank Brown did many experiments showing the effects of surrounding fields on biorhythms, Solco Tromp's publications on biometeorology and Michel Gauquelin's statistical studies showed other effects. There have been quite a few Hindu publications on body cycles. When I taught school and had to get up at the same time every day, I developed a strong metabolic rhythm that made me go to sleep immediately at 10:30, and if I had to stay awake, I had a sudden loss of energy exactly at 10:30. A daytime nap that's timed according to the small cycles can be very effective.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10783477
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10564105
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10235198
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8252751
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nasal_cycle
Molasses
[Blackstrap molasses?] Although it's extremely rich in minerals, I think the intense heat used for concentrating it degrades the sugar into things that are likely to be allergens.
Naloxone & Naltrexone
Bihari thinks naltrexone works by increasing endorphins, I think excess endorphins are often the problem, and the antagonist can sometimes be helpful. The endorphins differ in their effects on the two sides of the body, so when I knew two women (within the same year) who had been having mysterious one-sided symptoms for a few months before discovering that they had ovarian cancer (on the same side), I thought that the endorphins were probably involved, maybe to suppress pain on that side. Naloxone and naltrexone have some effects that aren't directly related to the endorphins, on estrogen and histamine.
Niacin(amide)
[Can Niacinamide be taken alone, or must it be combined with other B vitamins?] It can be used alone.
Orange Juice
Citric acid binds magnesium and calcium, and if the orange juice was sour (commercial juice usually has added citric acid) that might account for the blood pressure change [This source added].

If oranges aren't sweet, straining it won't prevent irritation.

[Cooking orange juice to reduce fluid intake] Part of the value of sweet orange juice is its antiinflammatory, antioxidant, antiestrogenic effect, and cooking will change those effects to some extent. What would be the reason for reducing fluid intake?
Oregano oil
It's one of the safest spices (low allergenicity, not mutagenic or carcinogenic), so if it isn't combined with harmful excipients it seems worth trying.
Organ Meat
Brains do contain beneficial steroids, but the other fats aren't necessarily good, so I don't recommend them especially as an isolated food.

[Do you have any misgivings about eating beef kidney once a week?] Yes, I never smelled one that I wanted to eat.
Panic Attacks
[Are panic attacks mainly a manifestation of hormonal imbalance, excessive stress hormones?] Yes, usually with hyperventilation caused by high estrogen and serotonin, low vitamin B6.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH)
High parathyroid hormone will increase calcium and lower phosphate. I regularly use at least two quarts of milk per day, in the past I have averaged a gallon a day, high calcium intake helps to compensate for low vitamin D, but both vitamin D and calcium in the diet tend to lower parathyroid hormone, and the serum calcium level. Quite a few people are now recommending from 2000 to 6000 i.u. of vitamin D3 daily during the winter.

If your vitamin D was very low for a long time, I think your parathyroid glands probably enlarged, and might take some time to normalize under the influence of a generous amount of vitamin D and calcium.
PCOS
PCOS can be produced in animals by removing the thyroid gland. The inability of ovaries to make progesterone without thyroid causes the adrenals to be overstimulated, and they are the source of increased DHEA and other androgens and estrogen.
Persorption
Particles absorbed from the intestine can pass from the blood into the lymph, cerebral spinal fluid, and urine. Having fat and fiber in the food reduces persorption.
Plastic
[Plastic containers] It depends on the type of plastic; if it's in a big plastic bucket, the plastic isn't as bad as in a 400 mililiter bottle, if it contains harmful chemicals.
PMS (Premenstrual Syndrome)
Premenstrual stress suggests that the thyroid function is low, at least during that time. Do you eat liver and shell fish occasionally? The trace nutrients in those sometimes make a difference.
Pregnancy
Salt is often the most important thing for pregnancy nausea. Two quarts of milk daily, cheese, eggs, and orange juice, but with anything salty, even sips of salty water first thing in the morning, should stop it. Low thyroid function, with a low ratio of progesterone to estrogen, causes the kidneys to be unable to retain salt efficiently.

I think a background of hypothyroidism, even when it's compensated by high production of the stress hormones so that the classical symptoms aren't present, is a major factor in reproductive problems, and in increasing susceptibility to injury by toxins, including DES and anesthetics. Progesterone production depends on good thyroid function, and as it declines cortisol and other stress hormones increase.
Pregnenolone
[TOPICAL PREGNENOLONE IN VITAMIN E COMPARED TO PROGEST-E FOR WOUND HEALING] Yes, probably better for most things.

[Does pregnenolone have to be micronized for it to dissolve in vitamin e?] It doesn't dissolve very well either way, it just takes some stirring and a little warmth.
Vitamin E breaks down quickly when it's hot, so stirring at room temperature is best; not much dissolves. It's much more economical to use it orally, as powder.

Ordinarily, you can make enough from converting sugar to cholesterol, with thyroid and vitamin A converting cholesterol to the other hormones. But when you have been poisoned with not enough of the needed foods, or too much of the unsaturated oils, heavy metals, causing free radical reactions and so on, then it helps to use all of the supports possible, thyroid supplements, pregnenolone supplements, possibly dhea and progesterone, saturated fats, sugar, everything that works in the same direction.

Pregnenolone is a lipid, only pharmaceutical salesmen talk about the need for a lipid matrix. Most people don't have allergic reactions to the rice and magnesium stearate.

[BAD RESPONSE TO PREG] I think that would be from impurities in the pregnenolone. In animal studies, a dose equivalent to about a pound in a person, caused no change, unless the animal was stressed, and in that case it stopped the stress. [PREGNENOLONE 'STEAL' THEORY] Regarding the pregnenolone steal theory, It would be interesting to know who started that, it's a mechanical way of thinking about physiology that ignores the things that really matter. Thyroid hormone, vitamin A, and cholesterol support the formation of pregnenolone, and the well nourished body is able to make large adjustments in these, to minimize the need for cortisol. In health, enough pregnenolone and progesterone are produced to inhibit the stress systems, for example by inhibiting the release of ACTH. When something prevents the formation of pregnenolone and progesterone, rising ACTH will increase its production as conditions permit, but if something, such as thyroid hormone, is lacking, the ACTH will increase cortisol, often with DHEA and the androgens increasing too, if resources permit; sometimes the stressed system is able to sustain only cortisol and aldosterone production, and that leads to degenerative problems.

Someone recently tested pregnenolone for Beyond a Century, and said it looks pure. Sometimes at first a few hundred milligrams are needed to lower cortisol.

When using pregnenolone, men and women alike report feeling a profound mood of resilience and an increased ability to confront challenges successfully.

Excipients or impurities in capsules can cause symptoms, by irritating the intestine. In animal studies (and in myself), extremely large doses didn't have any more effects than minimal doses. It's possible to eliminate some of the impurities by mixing it with warm vitamin E, and after stirring it, allowing it to settle, and using only what dissolved in the vitamin E.

[Then I asked if there's no way it can convert to excess estrogen or some other stress related hormone, under certain circumstances, like not getting enough protein or sugar, or some other nutrient, or adequate light. Also asked if someone is running on stress hormones from low thyroid and pregnenolone lowers those hormones, would it make things worse by lowering the metabolism even further.] I haven't heard of a situation like that; I'll see if I can find any information relating to that possibility.
Progesterone
Sometimes progesterone can cause an underactive enlarged thyroid gland to begin secreting, temporarily producing mild hypothyroidism while the gland returns to a normal size. Supplemental progesterone can reduce excessive cortisol production.

Since progesterone helps the thyroid to secrete, and helps the liver to regulate glucose and convert T4 to T3, women who are low in progesterone usually have hypothyroid symptoms (because of insufficient T3), including high cortisol, which promotes the synthesis of estrogen (in several ways, but never from progesterone). Cortisol is made from progesterone, but increasing the supply of progesterone reliably lowers cortisol synthesis, acting on the brain, pituitary, and adrenal glands. Progesterone, by many mechanisms, including its antagonism to cortisol, lowers the amount of estrogen in cells (causing the estrogen-binding proteins to be degraded, inhibiting the enzymes that release estrogen from the sulfates and glucuronides, and activating the enzymes that detoxify estrogen). So I think the symptoms of increased estrogen and cortisol are the result of either extraneous ingredients in the creams, or from using it at the wrong time, for example, too early, triggering premature ovulation. Supplementing a small amount of T3, Cytomel or Cynomel, usually stops symptoms such as breast pain, irritability, and restless energy, in less than an hour.

Some will enter your blood stream very quickly from the mouth membranes, but taking it with food the effect will be more gradual and prolonged.

I think it's most effective when you take it cyclically; imitating the menstrual cycle, with two week on and two off, would be good, unless you are using it to control some symptom.

Progesterone won't turn into estrogen, but along with thyroid and aspirin it will tend to reduce the amount of estrogen in the body. If you have symptoms, you could adjust the dose according to the effect; I have seen some people start recovering immediately with just 10 mg of progesterone, but it depends on the balance of other hormones.

If you know the date of the last menstruation, you could go by the calendar, so 6 or 10 or 14 weeks later might coincide with the ovulation cycle; if you have a sensation of ovulation, that would be a signal to start it, or if you see a sudden rise in morning temperature that could indicate ovulation. But if there's no cycle you can detect, just starting the progesterone could renew the rhythm.
Prostate
Correcting hypothyroidism will usually reduce prostate problems, and often pregnenolone helps with that as well as with increasing testosterone. Checking temperature and pulse rate at waking and in the middle of the day, and checking the Achilles tendon reflex relaxation rate, can help to judge the hormonal situation. Having a carrot salad every day (shredded carrot, with a little olive oil, vinegar, and salt) can help to lower the stress hormones that are usually associated with prostate inflammation.
Protein
For intense exercise, it's about a gram per pound of body weight.

I've always been very sedentary, but I have usually had close to 150 grams daily. The traditional meat eaters didn't waste anything,ate all the skin, ears, tails, snouts, feet,tendons, lungs, intestines, marrow, blood,brains, gonads and other glands, picked the ligaments off the bones, so they had a much better balance of amino acids. (Small town restaurants in Mexico, China, etc., still serve those.) Muscle meats are essentially a refined food.

That's more than enough, and with low thyroid function the excess of tryptophan, methionine, and cystein can lower your thyroid even more. Until your metabolic rate is higher, 80 to 100 grams would be better. Replacing it with sugar, or very well cooked starch, would support thyroid function.

It's better to take your protein during the day, sugar and fat in the evening. The powdered protein lacks most of the nutrients, so you probably need some fruit, eggs, and liver, for the other nutrients, including potassium and magnesium.

Food proteins stimulate insulin secretion, and to prevent hypoglycemia cortisol is increased. The food proteins (along with tissue proteins) can be used for energy under the influence of cortisol. Meats, other than beef, lamb, venison, and bison, usually contain enough polyunsaturated fat to affect estrogen, testosterone, and energy production. Stress, or increased cortisol, increases the circulating cysteine and tryptophan from muscle (meats), and these together with cortisol tend to increase aromatase. The high ratio of phosphate to calcium in meat activates a variety of stress processes; a high intake of calcium supports energy metabolism. Sugars tend to lower circulating free fatty acids, amino acids, and cortisol, while activating the thyroid hormone.

I think it just takes a few hours, or a day, to normalize the tryptophan. Vitamin B6 helps to guide the metabolism of tryptophan away from excessive serotonin.

[Does a protein deficiency lower liver detoxification due to increased muscle breakdown which inhibits thyroid via amino acids which lowers metabolic efficiency of liver?] Yes, I think that's at least part of how it works.
Protein powders
[Whey?] Powdered foods that contain tryptophan are extremely susceptible to harmful oxidation, and the best things are removed, for example calcium, lactose, and casein, with its anti-stress properties.
PUFA
The main way they [PUFA] are detoxified is by attaching glucuronic acid, making them water soluble, so they leave in the urine. Keeping the free fatty acids low in relation to albumin, they will largely be carried bound to the albumin to the liver.

They [polyunsaturated fats] are more water soluble, so are easier to release [from adipose tissue]. The fat cells themselves preferentially oxidize saturated fatty acids, so the stores tend to become more unsaturated with age.
Pulse
I think 85/minute resting is a good average. For the last 35 years I have tried to keep it averaging a little over 90. When people are using thyroid to recover from tumors or cataracts or other chronic problem, they sometimes hold their resting pulse rate at 100 or more for a few months, without any harmful effects. Sometimes I think you'll be able to figure it out by yourself.
Radiation
Not likely. The biological effects of radiation decrease as altitude increase. LET and mesons explain the relationship [AIRPLANES & RADIATION].
Receptors
[Alternative to 'receptors'] There are proteins that bind chemicals while those chemicals are producing effects on cells, but the schemes that use them to explain cell physiology are very ideological, usually arbitrarily excluding many alternative explanations. In some cases, they are fraudulent, in others, just stupid, but usually important for the drug industry. I think it's valuable to investigate the development of the estrogen receptor idea by Elwood Jensen.
RedBull
No, I haven't tried it.

[is glucuronolactone safe?] I think it is, if it's from a reliable source.
Resonance
He talks about the need for resonant electronic interaction in drug actions and smell; similar arguments have been made for vision, hearing, and other senses. In his model of the 'receptor' that responds to a drug he didn't talk about the things surrounding the receptor, which transmit the effect into the cell; the standard idea is that 'molecular cascades' of interaction diffuse the signal through the cytoplasm, but an alternative view is that the microtrabecular system is a communication system. It would be within this molecular network that the electronic resonance coherently transmits the excitations that make up consciousness. Resonant theories of sense and awareness go back at least 70 years. In the 1960s to 1980s, when all the textbooks described the cytoplasm as a liquid in which reactions were governed by free diffusion, with Michaelis-Menten kinetics, Sidney Bernard showed, stoichiometrically, that there is no free diffusion involved in the reactions of glycolysis, and glycolysis was the very basis for the belief that biochemistry could be studied in test-tubes, in watery solution. This requires a different view of cell organization. The living cell can be seen as an excitable medium, supporting oscillating reactions, with an inherent directionality. A.G.Gurwich, P.K. Anokhin, A. Szent-Gyorgyi, Mae-Wan Ho, and many others have contributed to developing this view [LUCA TURINS' TED TALK ON RESONANCE]
Reverse T3
Yes, it's probably induced by stress, with cortisol inducing the type of deiodinase that makes the inactive rT3. A low sugar diet can cause chronically high cortisol. If you are eating enough fruit and protein, I think the T3 of natural thyroid will help to correct the stress/inflammatory metabolism that is connected with the reverse T3.

There isn't any natural T3 product, in the sense of biologically created, but the activity of T3 is so great that the effective dose, of a few micrograms, couldn't introduce a significant amount of industrial junk; the excipients are the main concern, and whether the people making the tablets understand what they are doing. Cytomel and Cynomel, so far, have been very well made, and there isn't any other T3 product that I trust.
Salt
A friend had the celtic salt analyzed, and found it was high in toxic heavy metals. The pure white common salt is best.

That standard isn't very strict, but the salt is probably safe, if it's white. I usually use either La Baleine or Morton's canning and pickling salt.

[PARACHUTING SALT?] The salt might be causing problems used that way.

[Alternative sodium source] Baking soda in water is helpful for some people.
Seafood
[What is the best/safest way to cook seafood? I would assume boiling, steaming or frying in coconut oil.] Those, or butter.

[Is the quality of seafood, or other foods, a concern after the Fukushima nuclear disaster, for someone living in the West Coast? Could it have become irradiated and pose dangers to health?] Yes, sea food from the northern Pacific should be tested periodically, but the US government has stopped the radiation testing that had previously been done, which I think means that the radiation is exceeding their previous safety limits.
Serotonin
[SSRIs causing gut problems] The gut makes 95% of serotonin, which is the main promoter of stress hormones, inflammation, pain, and anxiety.

Serum serotonin fluctuates according to intestinal irritation, but for the average to change very much it's necessary for the liver and brain to adapt, and that usually takes a few months. Since the lungs are the main site of serotonin metabolism, an air ionizer near your bed can help.

B6 helps for turning tryptophan into niacin rather than serotonin.

I think cyproheptadine is a safe antiserotonin drug [serotonin syndrome].

I'm not familiar with it, but I assume it would be a serotonin antagonist [LSA].

Yes, it allows a positive kind of mental energy, since high serotonin causes conservative, defensive authoritarian avoidance [Lower serotonin leading to holism].

Effective mental effort is easier to make when serotonin isn't excessive; attitude and chemistry interact, both directions.

Some people who haven't had ideal results from bromocriptine have had better results from tianeptine, and/or lisuride, and/or cyproheptadine [anti-serotonin drugs].

The small doses, like coffee, help to optimize normal processes. Giant doses of either will deplete energy stores. Sugar, salt, milk, gelatin, juice, etc., help to restore the reserves [LSD].

If I were in a place where it's not illegal, I think I would want to occasionally use 10 mcg quantities. I think it's one of the things that can help to maintain the proper electronic resonance of the organism. (Have you heard any of Luca Turin's talks on resonance?) [LSD]

Cyproheptadine might be helpful for reducing sensitivity to intestinal irritants.

I have known a few people who had very good results with tianeptine, and a couple who got side effects from it. I think any of the antiserotonin drugs will eventually cause side effects, and should only be used until a problem is corrected, for example when an enlarged pituitary is normalized. I think the same effects can be produced with nutrition and hormones, without the possible problems.

[Can anti-serotonin drugs permanently fix a problem, even if taken only for a short while?] Yes, but it's important to keep adjusting thyroid and progesterone according to temperature, pulse, etc.

Thyroid is the best thing for controlling serotonin's effects. The drugs that act on "receptors" act simultaneously on many things; one effect of some of them is a selective "agonist" effect on the "receptor" which is involved in negative feedback, turning off the cells that produce serotonin. Wikipedia is a function of consensus; according to them, serotonin is a happy hormone, and there are no conspiracies of government officials and bankers.

[Decreasing SSRI dose] It takes time to adapt to decreasing those drugs, keeping sugar up and inflammation down, including bag breathing, should help. Starting with a little, a sixth or fourth of a tablet, of cynoplus in the evening would be the best way to try it.

[High serotonin] It's important to know how it was measured, and what your platelet count was. Is your intestine inflamed? Since serotonin affects bone metabolism, have your serum calcium, phosphate, parathyroid hormone, vitamin D3, prolactin, and cortisol been measured?

I don't think doctors know what to do for regulating serotonin. Vitamin B6 helps to direct tryptophan toward niacinamide, away from serotonin. Gelatin contains no tryptophan, so things like consomme can be helpful. Raw carrots, because of their antiseptic effect, help to lower irritation and bloating. Antibiotics can be helpful, when the small intestine is overgrown with bacteria. Thyroid supplementation will lower cholesterol. Some people get very sleepy with just two milligrams of Periactin, so I think it's good to start with one mg. the first night. Two milligrams can make a big difference, and when symptoms stop the effects can last for days without using it.
Sex
High estrogen does sometimes cause insatiable sexual interest, partly because it increases adrenal androgens, and partly by inhibiting satisfying orgasms. Too much progesterone can suppress or neutralize the androgens. Thyroid is the best way to regulate the system, keeping libido up, making orgasms satisfying.

[Does masturbation or sex have positive or negative effects on the hormones or stress?] Generally positive, but intense arousal can have unwanted consequences, such as herpes virus outbreaks.
Sleep
[SLEEP APNEA] Several things have been very effective, for example the drug Diamox, acetazolamide, stimulates respiration by changing CO2 and pH; caffeine, thyroid, and progesterone are the more natural things that stimulate respiration.
Thyroid is the main regulatory and adaptive substance for respiration. I think it's common to call the apnea "obstructive" when someone is fat, but it's probably essentially the same condition, filtered through the mechanical medical mind.
Smoking
In old people, a little nicotine can have a balancing effect, improving alertness, and probably protecting nerves, for example in the negative association with Parkinson's disease. But in younger people, its vasoconstrictive effect tends to promote the development of wrinkles in the skin, and I think it's likely to contribute to periodontal disease.

[NIACINAMIDE FOR STOPPING SMOKING] After middle age, nicotine isn't likely to become addictive, and in small amounts it has nerve protective effects. Some of those effects probably overlap with the nerve protective effects of niacinamide. I haven't experimented with nicotine or tobacco, but I think transdermal application is preferable to smoking; carbon monoxide and other serious toxins are produced by burning the tobacco.
Sorbitol
A little is o.k.
Starch
[Could you give us some clarity and help us to understand your thoughts about potatoes, when time permits?] When a person has limited money for food, potatoes are a better staple than beans or oats. Starches associated with saponins, alkaloids, and other potentially pro-inflammatory things make them a less than ideal food, if you have digestion-related health problems, and if you can afford to choose. New potatoes are tastier, less starchy, and probably less likely to cause digestive irritation.

[Mercola on starch and and acrylamide - http://articles.mercola.com/sites/articles/archive/2013/07/17/acrylamide.aspx] PUFA (omega-3 and -6 oils, also called polyunsaturated fatty acids) break down into several toxic things, including acrolein, which oxidizes to form acrylate, and both of them react with ammonia or amines to form acrylamide. I haven't read the article, but it does seem odd that they would think the starch was the source of the acrylamide.
Stevia
Stevia extract is probably safe. The plant is often highly contaminated with arsenic.
Stroke
Constipation might have been responsible for the stroke. Progesterone is already being used medically, 'experimentally,' for brain protection and repair, pregnenolone has some of the similar effects, probably not as powerfully, but it's safe in any quantity. Carbon dioxide increase can often restore circulaton to areas that have a vascular spasm; a little baking soda in water sometimes helps that. Sugar sometimes helps with constipation. They should be doing something for the constipation; inflammation is often involved, and aspirin and cascara (emodin) are helpful if the main blockage can be overcome with enemas. Inflamed tissues are hyperosmotic, so enemas with the standard 0.9% saline cause tissue swelling; double or triple osmolar saline is usually helpful.

[STROKE BRAIN RECOVERY] Both progesterone and pregnenolone are o.k. at the same time. They protect the brain. Vitamin K (1 or 2) is probably better to use before aspirin, since it helps to prevent both more clotting and also bleeding. A day after the vitamin K the aspirin would be safer, and it helps to protect brain cells. Niacinamide, vitamin B1 and biotin are other brain protective things, even is small amounts. Hospitals often treat strokes with too much oxygen, to reduce brain pressure, but that reduces circulation to the brain; 5% carbon dioxide with oxygen helps to reduce brain swelling while maintaining circulation.
Strontium
[EGGSHELL HIGH IN STRONTIUM] The normal kind of strontium seems to be harmless, it was the radioactive kind from nuclear bombs and industry that was used asan indicator of fallout contamination, and was highly associated with leukemia. Around 1960 there were warnings about the danger of milk contamination, but vegetables were the greatest source of it.
Study
[Good biology books] Harold Hillman's books are good for surveying the nonfactual aspects of 'biology.' Sometimes I put 'membranes' in quotation marks to indicate that people mean very different things by the word. (For example, the centrifugation 'pellet' is often meant when they say 'membranes'.) F.S. Sjostrand and other electron microscopists working in the 1950s to 1970s are worth looking at. The irrelevancy of the 'membrane' is explained in Gilbert Ling's work.

I don't know of any single book that assembles the important things, it's probably still necessary to read the original work and some of the things in each field that have built on those. G. N. Lewis, Peter A. Stewart (the "acid base tutorial" on the internet summarizes his approach), Bungenberg de Jong (coacervates), Sidney Fox, Walter Drost-Hansen, A.S. Troshin, Gerald Pollack, Szent-Gyorgyi, Carlos Sonnenschein, James A. Shapiro are people who have tried to avoid the mainstream mistakes, and have suggested new possibilities by the facts they chose to study.
Sugar
If the rest of your diet is good, the energy bursts from sugar should level off, and become a steady increased metabolic rate.

There is a great anti-sugar cult, with even moralistic overtones,equating sugar craving with morphine addiction. Sugar craving is usually caused by the need for sugar, generally caused by hypothyroidism.When yeasts have enough sugar, they just happily make ethanol, but when they don't have sugar, they can sink filaments into the intestine wall seeking it, and, if the person is very weak, they can even invade the bloodstream and other organs. Milk, cheese, and fruits provide a very good balance of nutrients. Fruits provide a significant amount of protein. Plain sugar is o.k. when the other nutrients are adequate. Roots, shoots, and tubers are, next to the fruits, a good carbohydrate source; potatoes are a source of good protein. Meat as the main protein can provide too much phosphorus in relation to calcium.

I think a total for sugar up to ten ounces can be o.k., depending on your metabolic rate and needs. Budd and Piorry used up to 12 ounces per day therapeutically.

I have often had a gallon of orange juice in a day, with 100 grams of other sugar, and didn't see any problem, even while being sedentary. If your metabolic rate is high, with a pound of sugar you will still have an appetite for quite a bit of fat and protein.

People can do well on high or low fat or carbohydrate, but when the carbohydrate is very low, some of the protein will be wasted as fuel, replacing the missing glucose.

Appetite should be the basic guide. When your liver has enough glycogen stored, sweet things aren't appetizing.

A daily diet that includes two quarts of milk and a quart of orange juice provides enough fructose and other sugars for general resistance to stress, but larger amounts of fruit juice, honey, or other sugars can protect against increased stress, and can reverse some of the established degenerative conditions. Refined granulated sugar is extremely pure, but it lacks all of the essential nutrients, so it should be considered as a temporary therapeutic material, or as an occasional substitute when good fruit isn't available, or when available honey is allergenic.

That depends on your size, metabolic rate, and activity, and the other nutrients, but I sometimes have more than that [400 G OF CARBOHYDRATE], including the sugar in milk and orange juice (and I'm about your size, and very sedentary). The fructose component of ordinary sugar (sucrose) helps to increase the metabolic rate. I think a person of average size should have at least 180 grams per day, maybe an average of about 250 grams.

Sugar helps the liver to make cholesterol, switching from starchy vegetables to sweet fruits will usually bring cholesterol levels up to normal. If the fat is mostly saturated, from milk, cheese, butter, beef, lamb or coconut oil, I think it's usually o.k. to get about 50% of the calories from fat, but since those natural fats typically contain around 2% polyunsaturated fats, I try to minimize my PUFA intake by having more fruit, and a little less fat, maybe 30 to 35%.

If your other foods are rich in vitamins and minerals it's safe.

To prevent stress, or to replenish glycogen stores after stress, your appetite for it is likely to be a good guide.

Starch is less harmful when eaten with saturated fat, but it's still more fattening than sugars.

No, although there are some nutrient minerals in it, the impurities can be slightly toxic and allergenic [BROWN SUGAR].

Diabetics typically have elevated lactate, which shows that glucose doesn't have a problem getting into their cells, just getting oxidized. Sugars, if they are consumed in quantities beyond the ability to metabolize them (and that easily happens in the presence of PUFA) are converted into saturated fatty acids, which have antistress, antiinflammatory effects. Many propaganda experiments are set up, feeding a grossly excessive amount of polyunsaturated fat, causing sugar to form fat, specifically so they can publish their silly diet recommendations, which supposedly explain the obesity epidemic, but the government figures I cited show that vegetable fat consumption has increased, sugar hasn't. My articles have a lot of information on the mechanisms, such as the so-called 'Randle cycle,' in which fatty acids shut down the ability to oxidize sugar. Polyunsaturated fats do many things that increase blood sugar inappropriately, and my articles review several of the major mechanisms.Several years ago, medical people started talking about the harmful effects of insulin, such as stimulating fat production, so 'insulin resistance' which keeps a high level of insulin from producing obesity would seem to be a good thing, but the medical obesity culture really isn't thinking very straight. One factor in the 'insulin resistance' created by PUFA involves estrogen---chronic accumulation of PUFA in the tissues increases the production of estrogen, and the polyunsaturated free fatty acids intensify the actions of estrogen, which acts in several ways to interfere with glucose oxidation.

I checked a few of the references that were on the charts in his video, and didn't find any facts that would necessarily support what he was saying. Many people are publishing similar extreme interpretations. His ideas about alcohol, appetite, addiction, insulin, and leptin are stereotyped medical cliches, that aren't supported clearly by good evidence [SUGAR THE BITTER TRUTH - LUSTIG].

[Coconut sugar] If it's browned from heating, it's more likely to be allergenic, and even without too much heat, some people are likely to be allergic to it. But if it doesn't cause any reactions, then it's very good, with some nutritional value.
Honey is in some ways better than white sugar, but depending on the plants it's derived from, it can be allergenic. White sugar has the advantage of being very clean. Fruits have many valuable nutrients, so are the best way to get sugars, when good ones are available.
Sun
[ZINC OXIDE LEAST HARMFUL SUNSCREEN] Yes.

[Considering that aspirin works in some ways like niacinamide, would niacinamide help prevent sunburn?] I haven't tried niacinamide for sun protection; the fact that it can lighten skin pigment might mean that it's blocking some free radical processes.

[Sun damaged skin] Topical vitamin A with vitamin E would be protective. Progesterone and caffeine are other powerfully protective things. Both caffeine and progesterone are protective topically as well as orally.
Supplements
Because of contaminants in supplements I seldom recommend the oral use of any of them, except aspirin, which can be dissolved in warm water to remove most of the additives. In the winter I use vitamin D, but only on my skin in an oil. Using a thyroid supplement temporarily might help to lower your estrogen.

Some of the B vitamins, especially B2, can be very allergenic. B6 doesn't affect the others very much; 10 mg per day is a big dose.

Its effects are usually visible immediately, or within a few days, if it's going to be helpful. It's best in general to get the B vitamins from regular foods, occasionally with liver, because supplements usually contain contaminants that can cause allergic reactions when they are used for a long time. Other B vitamins that are usually safe for occasional use are B1, niacinamide, and pantothenic acid.

If you are getting enough of the major nutrients, including protein, calcium, and sugar, it's possible that you have a specific stress-related deficiency, for example of B6, niacinamide, or selenium. 10 mg of B6 can sometimes make a quick difference in prostate and libido, 100 mg of niacinamide can reduce some stress symptoms. Applying caffeine solution to the scalp locally helps to promote hair growth. Water and a little alcohol are convenient for applying it. [LOW LIBIDO, HAIR LOSS FOR A YOUNG MALE]

Because of individual sensitivities, each one should be tested carefully. Allergic reactions sometimes show up within a few minutes of contacting your mouth, other times it takes a couple of days to see a bad reaction. The worst one is B2, folic acid is next for allergies. B1, pantothenic acid, niacinamide and B6 are pretty safe.

[PUFAs IN VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS] As long as you use the vitamin topically it would not do any harm but be careful to not expose your skin to direct sunlight.

Most supplements contain enough impurities to eventually cause problems. Thyroid and aspirin are among the safest, and the most likely to be valuable indefinitely. It depends on where you live, but vitamin D3, vitamin K, and selenium deficiencies are extremely widespread.
T2
[Question about T2 mentioning 150mcg-capsules] Mitochondria have the enzyme for converting T3 to T2. The potency seems crazy, the body needs only about 4 mcg per hour.
Teenagers & Puberty
Around puberty the changing hormones, especially momentarily high estrogen in boys, can cause some obsessive episodes, and I suppose stress could be involved with early high testosterone production. A few small supplementations with thyroid or pregnenolone might reduce the stress and extend his growing years, but he could judge by whether it made him feel better. Lots of milk and fruit are appropriate in the teens, with eggs, seafoods, and meats according to appetite.

[Cynoplus & Retin-A/Retinoids for Teenager] An eighth or tenth of a cynoplus tablet is a good amount for a trial, it's a little less than the body would normally produce in an hour, so it's enough to detect as a change of state, slight change of heart rate, warming of hands, for example. Vitamin A is such a basic metabolic factor, in the brain and endocrine glands, liver and kidneys, etc., I think it's dangerous to experiment with drugs that interfere with it.
Teeth
Besides keeping phosphates low, getting a lot of vitamin K, and maybe rubbing some onto the gums, might help; it's antiinflammatory. Some people have reverse gingivitis by "rinsing" with coconut oil twice a day, swishing it around for a couple of minutes.

I use baking soda, and I rinse my mouth after having sugar, orange juice, etc. The quality of the saliva, regulated mainly by the thyroid hormone, is the main factor in dental health. My newsletter on osteoporosis mentioned some of the studies on thyroid, estrogen, and tooth decay.

[removing wisdom tooth] If it's decayed or inflamed, removing a wisdom tooth might be protective.

Intestinal inflammation is often behind recurrent tooth infectons, and a daily raw carrot can make a big difference (along with avoiding legumes, undercooked starches and raw or undercooked vegetables).

[Carrageenan in toothpaste] No, it isn't likely to be a problem unless you are very sensitive to it.

There's normally no need to replace root canals, and x-rays aren't necessary even when having a root canal done if the dentist is very competent. The Japanese are probably more aware than Americans of the damage done by diagnositic x-rays. Systemic toxic effects have been demonstrated from a single set of dental x-rays [sources given include this, this oh and also that].
Testosterone
Yes, pure testosterone on the skin is safe if the diet and thyroid function are good, but it's better to try supplements of pregnenolone first, and then DHEA, to normalize the testosterone production.
Thyroid Hormone
[TOPICAL T3] Using it topically doesn't do anything for systemic metabolism, just the skin, at least at the concentrations I'm familiar with.

It's important to remember that it's cumulative, and the effect of any daily dose increases with time, and is affected by many things, so it's important to keep a chart [of temperature and pulse], watching for changes during a period of about two weeks.

An eighth of a tablet of either [Cynoplus/Cynomel] is a good starting dose. The difference is that T3 has a short half-life, and so can be repeated more often, while watching the pulse rate, so it's possible to get a quicker response.

Sensitivities and requirements vary widely. I've known people who temporarily needed 500 mg of Armour even in the summer, but usually the summer requirement is a fourth of the winter requirement. For some people, 15 mg of Armour was enough, and for some 1 mcg of Cytomel was an effective dose.

[WINTER RECOVERY] The end of winter is the worst time, because of the cumulative stress injury. Small amounts of T3, just 2 to 4 mcg at a time, along with good nutrition, including plenty of calcium (e.g., two quarts of milk), helps to recover from winter.

A starting dose of about 1 mcg can produce a noticeable effect, and can be repeated at intervals according to the effect. 5 mcg with a meal is another way to start it. Thyroid tends to lower cholesterol by converting it into pregnenolone and other steroids, and yours is high enough to easily improve your steroid hormone balance.

[Thyroid acting like caffeine] Not like caffeine, but if too much is taken suddenly, a person who has been deficient in thyroid is likely to experience an excess of adrenaline. Since the body normally produces about 4 mcg of T3 in an hour, taking 10 or 20 mcg at once is unphysiological.

[NDT recommendations] I haven't seen anything that compares well with the original Armour.

T3 has a short half-life in the body, and by adding small amounts of it you could feel quickly whether it was having the right effects. I don't know how reliable the Erfa is in composition. Mood is a good indicator, and the temperature of the toes and fingers usually changes quickly with thyroid changes.

The liver has to convert T4 to T3 for it to be effective. It needs glucose and selenium to make the conversion. Adequate protein, at least 80 grams per day, is necessary. Sea food, once a week will provide selenium, two quarts of milk and a quart of orange juice would provide many of the other essential nutrients. Taking T4 at bedtime sometimes is helpful. Most people feel best on a ratio of T4:T3 of 4:1 or less. Checking the relaxation rate of the Achilles reflex is a quick way to check the effect of the thyroid on your nerves and muscles; the relaxation should be instantaneous, loose and floppy.

[HOW TO STOP THYROID] If a person's thyroid gland has been inhibited by very high doses of a supplement, it takes only 2 or 3 days for the gland to resume full activity, and because it takes time for the hormone to be excreted, suddenly stopping a supplement shouldn't be noticeable, when the gland isn't being inhibited or malfunctioning.

Are there any combination products, such as Thyrolar or Cynoplus, that you can get in Spain? It's good to start with a small amount, such as 5 mcg of T3 twice a day, while watching for changes in your pulse rate, temperature, and ability to sleep. Half a grain of Armour, or about 30 mcg of T4 and 7.5 mcg of T3, is traditionally a common starting dose; it should be taken with a meal, so that it absorbs slowly. Taking a very small amount at bedtime usually helps with insomnia.

Try a sixth of a 25 mcg cynomel tablet at first, and watch for the effects in the first two hours. According to what you notice, you could continue that once a day, or twice a day, for about 10 days, then you could try some with each meal, for another week. #2 and #3: when you find out how the T3 affects you, you could change to the combination (Armour or Thyrolar or Cynoplus); the amounts I mentioned would be similar to 12 mcg of T3 per day.

It depends on what you notice from taking a small amount with meals. If it makes you feel pleasant, calm, confident, then trying it at bedtime would be right.

25 mcg of T3 has approximately the activity of a grain (65 mg) of thyroid gland; is ERFA the only one available? A synthetic thyroxine could be combined with the Cynomel. Since the European products aren't necessarily the same as those made elsewhere, and a person's requirements are variable, it's essential to start with small amounts, watching for the effects, including pulse rate and temperature. T4 builds up slowly in the tissues, over about 14 days, but the T3 acts immediately. With any product, a single dose of T3 of about 4 mcg is close to the physiological range; sometimes a smaller amount is enough.

As long as it's divided so that you don't get a big dose of T3 all at once it should be o.k. to take a total of 25 mcg T3 and 100 of T4.That would be similar to the traditional 2 grain dose of Armour thyroid. A healthy person should produce the equivalent of about four grains per day, so with 2 grains of supplement, or the equivalent, there isn't a risk of over-dosing.

I use Cynomel and Cynoplus mostly, but they come in only one size, so I cut the tablets into about ten parts.

Thyroid is the only thing that safely lowers cholesterol, but when your stress hormones are very high, you shouldn't take more than about one microgram of Cytomel at a time, and should accompany it with things like milk and orange juice.

Twice a day should be o.k., [CYTOMEL] but every day you should make a note of your pulse rate and temperature, and in a week or ten days you should be able to see a progression.

Sometimes it takes many months to get the metabolic rate stable at a higher level, and it's often necessary to use a thyroid supplement.

It [CYTOMEL] improves the retention of magnesium, and cellular relaxation, and some people want to have a nap in the afternoon when their thyroid is good.

If you use some T3 (such as Cytomel or Cynomel) it's important to keep each dose small, while watching for changes in your pulse and temperature. Usually 4 or 5 mcg at a time is o.k. (the body makes about 4 mcg per hour). I don't think there's likely to be any problem using desiccated thyroid if the product is good, but because of changing manufacturing methods, that's largely a matter of trial and error. Low ferritin is often a result of hypothyroidism. The need for thyroid increases greatly during the winter in high latitudes, for example when I needed half a grain in the summer, I had to increase it to two grains during the winter. When cholesterol is high, that can make it easier to adapt to a thyroid supplement, since the thyroid will stimulate the conversion of cholesterol into progesterone and the adrenal hormones.

I have heard from a few people using it, one thinks it doesn't work , but I haven't heard enough details to form an opinion yet. [THIROYD by Greater Pharma]

Armour thyroid, USP, was the standard thyroid used widely for about 80 years. Since ownership of the product name was bought by Revlon and then a series of other companies, I'm not sure anything of the simple original formula remains; maybe magnesium stearate, I haven't looked lately.

With your TSH so high, you should probably add a thyroid supplement, until you get it down to about 1.0, or less. (The normal range, according to the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, is from 0.3 to 3.0.)

A few years ago I had some communication from a pharmacist at Forest Pharmaceutical, and he said that over ten years ago they began having thyrocalcitonin extracted from the pig thyroid powder to sell separately as a new drug. I think that left stearic acid as the only ingredient the current product might have in common with traditional Armour thyroid, USP. I don't use any product containing fumed or colloidal silica, or titanium, or various novel polymers, or coloring agents

I use Cynoplus (contains T4 and T3) and Cynomel (T3 only) that I usually get from www.mymexicandrugstore.mx. There is only one size tablet, and a fourth of a tablet is a typical starting dose.

T3, by lowering stress, sometimes reveals a low basal metabolic rate, that was hidden by high stress hormones. The body produces about 4 mcg of T3 per hour, so taking more than that can interfere with regulatory processes. It's helpful to use the resting pulse rate, and the 24 hour temperature curve, along with other signs, such as mood, appearance of veins on the hands, etc. The peak temperature should be in the afternoon.

I occasionally see that happen [T3 WILL CAUSE LOW TEMP/PULSE]; sometimes people have had their pulse rate decrease 40 or 50 beats per minute. The temperature of your fingers, toes, and nose helps to interpret the balance between stress and thyroid; your fingers should be less cold as your metabolic rate comes up. In extreme hypothyroidism, the hands and feet can be very cold while the oral temperature looks o.k.; then as the metabolic rate increases, the difference between fingers and mouth decreases.

When I used only Cytomel, any little stress would make me suddenly hypothyroid, and my heart would stop several times in a minute; when I started using some thyroid, USP, that contained both T4 and T3 it stopped happening.

Experimenters using isotopes gave large doses of thyroid until the subjects' glands were completely shut off, and when they stopped giving the doses, everyone's gland returned to normal activity in just 2 or 3 days. The gland is extremely quick to adjust its activity, both up and down, except when it's inhibited by stress, or PUFA, or estrogen, etc. [TAKING THYROID WILL HAVE LONG-TERM EFFECTS]

The temperature rise during the day is the most important thing, since nocturnal stress hormones can give a misleading impression in the morning. Resting pulse rate is another good indicator. Milk and cheese are the best calcium sources.

If you are eating enough protein, about 100 grams, and salt and thyroid, then I would consider the steroids--something might be interfering with your production of pregnenolone and DHEA. Things that could do that would be very low cholesterol, or a deficiency of vitamin A (retinol), or possibly other deficiencies.

If your cholesterol is above 200, and the thyroid supplements didn't warm you up, it's possible that something is interfering with your steroid synthesis, which might be a deficiency of something like vitamin A, or interference from something like iron or carotene. Have you tried a supplement of pregnenolone or DHEA? Were any other hormones, such as prolactin, measured? If you are taking the aspirin regularly, you should make sure to get vitamin K, from kale, liver, or a supplement. Anemia, like cold feet, is a common sign of low thyroid function.

Several of the commercially available products aren't well formulated, some are completely inactive. Cytomel's formulation has changed recently, so I'm not sure of its present potency. In areas with fluoridated water, taking a tablet with water can inactivate it. With good Cytomel, once a person has taken a very big dose, the liver produces enzymes to inactivate it quickly, so after 12 hours the blood level will become too low, and another big dose will be needed. Stress hormones are responsible for raising reverse T3, and just supplementing T3 is seldom enough to normalize the stress hormones, so continued use of large doses can maintain improved functioning, but at the risk of developing problems from the continued excess of those hormones.

[HIGH STRESS HORMONES ON THYROID INCREASES SENSITIVITY TO THEM?] Not necessarily, but it's something to watch for. The daily temperature cycle is helpful, if stress is low, there will be a strong cycle, lowest at night, early morning.

[THYROID NOT ENOUGH TO LOWER STRESS HORMONES] Yes, the diet is an essential part of normalizing them. The climate is important, too.

[TEMPERATURE CYCLE - DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LOWEST AND HIGHEST TEMPERATURE] It depends on when you wake up, but anything from 0.6 to 1 degree Fahrenheit can be normal.

[HIGH HEART RATE AFTER T3] I think regular use of the pregnenolone might help. Are you getting enough milk, and salting your food to taste? Do you have some sea food regularly? (For trace minerals.)
Have you tried taking the small amounts of T3 at different intervals, sooner until the symptoms are gone, then longer intervals until they return? TSH is likely to be high early in the morning, and as it subsides during the day the amount of T3 needed might decrease.

[IMPROVING T4->T3 CONVERSION] If you were deficient in selenium, the correcting effect would be quick, but if there was a problem with intestinal flora, that would have to be taken care of before conversion was good. Other nutritional deficiencies could be involved. Daily raw carrot, weekly seafood and liver, enough sunlight and vitamin D, a good ratio of calcium to phosphate, are often helpful.
Calcium (two liters of milk), vitamin D and plenty of orange juice sometimes help to regulate things by balancing the minerals. A daily carrot salad should keep the small intestine fairly sterile.

[Giving 3mcg Cynomel/hour to 84-year-old grandmother with dementia] If someone is in a precarious condition, even smaller amounts at a time might be better. For example, a man in the hospital right after a heart attack started taking one mcg per hour; the doctors had said that at the rate his enzymes were rising they would be expected to keep rising for another day, but they started decreasing exactly when he started the small doses, and they had decreased the next day when he left the hospital, without symptoms. T3, sugar, and aspirin are the most heart-protective things.

The working thyroid gland produces about the equivalent of 4 grains of desiccated thyroid per day, and that is about 70% thyroxine, T4, which allows the liver to make as much of the active T3 hormone as needed (if it is well nourished, and not blocked by PUFA or estrogen or other inhibitor). So taking that amount makes up for what your gland would be producing; by suppressing TSH, which stimulates the growth and activity of the thyroid, it also protects against the recurrence of cancer if it wasn't all removed (some types of cancer were treated just by supplementing thyroid, without surgery). Since the desiccated thyroid is made available by being digested, it's best to divide the day's dose, with some at each meal and at bedtime, so that the amount of active hormone entering the blood isn't too high at any time.

[Things inhibiting T3 from entering cells] It isn't a matter of T3 entering cells, it's assuring that it is either made by conversion from the T4, or taken as a supplement.
Tinnitus
Too much pseudoephedrine increases stress hormones, loratadine isn't good for the liver, and anything that irritates the intestine can cause tinnitus by increasing endotoxin absorption.
TMJD / Jaw cartilage
Have you watched your temperature and pulse rate with various foods? The high magnesium content of coffee, combined with milk and fruit, can help a little with hypothyroidism, but you might need a supplement, to normalize the jaw cartilage.
TSH (Thyroid Stimulating Hormone)
I think it's best to keep the TSH around 0.4

I think it's good to have TSH below 0.4, and that probably contributes to loss of hair.

I think it's good to have lower TSH. It contributes to some of the circulatory and inflammatory problems seen in hypothyroidism. People with TSH below 0.4 were the freest from thyroid cancer. The amount of body fat contributes to both prostate and breast cancer, largely because it's a chronic source of estrogen, by converting the protective androgens. Milk drinkers tend to be the least obese (e.g., the Masai people). One study saw an association of skimmed milk with prostate cancer, but not whole milk, probably because fat people avoid whole milk. Powdered eggshells are a good alternative source of calcium, but milk and cheese are better. When the TSH is lower, the estrogen will probably be lower too.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs)
Slight hypothyroidism is a very common cause of chronic urinary infections. Both thyroid hormone and progesterone increase the (IgA) antibody production on membranes, improving resistance to infection, and they reduce the resistance to histamine, which tends to increase in the bladder under an excess of estrogen. Checking temperature and pulse rate in the morning and middle of the day is helpful as a first way to check for possible hypothyroidism.
Vegetables
[GREEN JUICES] The minerals and vitamin K are definitely valuable, but the high content of PUFA and tannins is a problem. Boiling the leaves and discarding all but the water can produce a good magnesium supplement.

[I supplement 5g of vit K2 mk-4 once a week, do you think green veggies are even necessary?] If you have other sources of magnesium, the green vegetables aren't needed.
Virilization
Low thyroid and high estrogen, resulting from various things such as high PUFA, low nutrient diet, interfere with progesterone synthesis, and the adrenals compensate, producing androgens instead. Pregnenolone helps to lower adrenal androgens, progesterone can be used topically on some hairy areas.
Vitamin A
The small amount of oil in a capsule doesn't matter much. Any capsule should have the highest potency in the smallest size, to minimize the junk.

Yes, it's definitely hard to get them coordinated when there's an imbalance in one direction or the other. For several years, when I had an extremely high metabolic rate, I needed 100,000 units per day during sunny weather to prevent acne and ingrown whiskers, but when I moved to a cloudy climate, suddenly that much was too much, and suppressed my thyroid. The average person is likely to be hypothyroid, and to need only 5,000 units per day. Avoiding large amounts of carotene, and getting plenty of vitamin B12 to be able to convert any carotene that's in your food, helps to use vitamin A efficiently.

Yes, vitamin A and estrogen are antagonistic, and while estrogen promotes keratinization (shedding of skin cells), vitamin A opposes it. Since vitamin A is highly unsaturated, in excess it suppresses the thyroid, so it has to be balanced with the thyroid; the combination is effective for increasing progesterone and decreasing estrogen, slowing the turnover of skin cells, and making the skin cells function longer before flaking off. Plugged pores, combined with a local shift toward synthesizing inflammatory substances, foster bacterial infection. Bright light stimulates the production of steroids, and consumes vitamin A very quickly, but when the balance is right, the acne clears up in just a day or two. Cream, butter, eggs, and liver are good sources of vitamin A. When people supplement thyroid and eat liver once or twice a week, their acne and dandruff (and many other problems) usually clear up very quickly. It was acne and dandruff that led me into studying the steroids and thyroid, and in the process I found that they were related to constipation and food sensitivity.

I found that I had an extremely high vitamin A requirement, increased by stress or bright light, and that it related to thyroid function. Usually, thyroid and vitamin A are the supplements that stop acne.

I avoid carotene, because it blocks thyroid and steroid production, and very large, excessive, amounts of vitamin A, retinol, can do the same. I use halibut liver oil-derived vitamin A, or retinyl palmitate.

A solution of aspirin in water on the skin helps with the inflammation, and is mildly germicidal.

Vitamin A deficiency is a common cause of dandruff.

Estrogen causes the oil glands to atrophy, so the skin doesn't support bacterial growth so well. Topical sulfur's germicidal effect can help, and topical aspirin and caffeine are antiseptic as well as antiinflammatory. One function of vitamin A is to increase progesterone in the skin, and it has to be in balance with thyroid to do that. Another function is to differentiate the skin cells, reducing keratin plugging of the glands.

For several years, I had a similar need to take 100,000 i.u. daily to prevent acne and ingrown whiskers, so I read a lot about its effects. The toxic effects of extremely big doses, such as 500,000 to a million i.u., seem to be from either oxidative processes (rancidity) that are prevented by adequate vitamin E, or by antithyroid effects. I found that when my need for vitamin A began to decrease I tended to accumulate carotene in my calluses; that happens when the thyroid function is lower, reducing the need for vitamin A. Since you are eating foods with carotene, the calluses on your palms or soles should serve as an indicator of when your tissues are saturated with vitamin A. About 100 i.u. of vitamin E would help to keep the vitamin A from being wasted by oxidation, and possibly could reduce your requirement for it.

[Are vitamin A supplements inherently allergenic or are they allergenic just because of modern production processes?] It's something in the manufactured product that's not in the natural.

[Do you know of a good product by the way] I use Nutrisorb-A on my skin.

[On this study] I think it would have been possible for any one of those six co-authors to write an equally worthless paper. The amount of "water-miscible, emulsified, and solid preparations" would have been about 40,000 i.u. per day for an average sized person, but there was no clear definition of what they mean by chronic hypervitaminosis A.
Vitamin C
The trace impurities in synthetic ascorbic acid can increase free radical production, and quite a few people have allergic reactions to it. The situation isn't as clear with citric acid, but I think manufacturing impurities could account for some of the effects I see. For many years, I have been seeing more symptoms relieved by stopping all the chemical supplements, than
Vitamin D
I use Carlson's, and I think most of the informed people are recommending about 2,000 units per day. John Cannell's site, 'the vitamin D council,' has a newsletter, and is a good way to keep up with the vitamin D research.

I think getting enough vitamin D increases the ability to tan.

During the winter for a couple of months 10,000 units of D should be safe, but it's better to increase calcium and vitamin K, keeping the vitamin D a little lower unless you have the blood level checked occasionally.

Usually 2000 i.u. during the winter will make up for no sunlight. Some people need 5000 iu according to their blood tests, to keep it in the middle of the range.

[Blood test] I think 50 ng/ml is a good goal. The point at which it lowers parathyroid hormone would be the right amount.
Vitamin E
My thesis adviser, Arnold Soderwall, did some studies showing that vitamin E extended fertility considerably. I found some of his old Sigma (chemical company) vitamin E still in the freezer, and I was working on the idea that oxidative catalysts in the liver were directly related to estrogen's effects. I would extract lipids from the liver, and use paper chromatography to separate them, and for reference points I used the vitamin E and different quinones (coenzyme Q10, Q6, and benzoquinone). I happened to mix the vitamin E with one of the quinones, and noticed that it turned almost black; all of the quinones had the same effect. Putting the mixture on the paper, the moving solvent separated the original components. Delocalized electrons absorb low energy light, causing a dark color (as in black semiconductors), and Szent-Gyorgyi had expressed wonder about what could cause the dark color of the healthy liver, a color that can't be extracted as a pigment. This experiment convinced me that vitamin E could be one of the participants in delocalizing electrons for activating proteins in the way S-G suggested. However, the technology for manufacturing vitamin E has changed greatly over the years, and I have never found anything sold as vitamin E that produces the same dark colors as that old stuff from the freezer. I don't know whether the powerfully therapeutic (anti-estrogenic, clot-clearing, anti-inflammatory, quinone-reactive) old vitamin E contained 'impurities' that were effective, or whether it's that the newer materials contain impurities that reduce their effects.

It was labeled d-alphatocopherol, but it was semi-solid, like crystallized honey.

Pure vitamin E doesn't have any toxic effects, except when it's enough to irritate the intestine, probably because of viscosity.

[Do you take vitamin E?] No, I stopped taking it, partly because of the new manufacturing methods, that were associated for several years with adding soy oil to the product.

[Do you have a preference between with high alpha or high gamma mixed tocopherols?] In similar milligram amounts, I would prefer gamma.

I think mixed tocopherols are better than just d-alpha, but with d-alpha it's good to choose one that has a high potency per volume. I have noticed that one of Unique's products seems to be mostly other oil. I think polycosanols account for some of the viscosity, so I prefer the thick ones.

If the potency of a vitamin E product is around 1000 i.u. per milliliter, the amount of soy oil isn't a concern, but if it's only about 100 i.u./ml, then there's enough oil to matter.

The lighter consistency is because less soy oil is removed from some cheaper products. They don't have to add oil, they just leave more of it in the product. But non-GMO soy is mostly produced using other herbicides and pesticides, and each pesticide has different affinities for oil or water, so oil soluble pesticides would be the main concern, and those are generally much more volatile than vitamin E, and so if they were present in the crude oil, they would end up mostly in the refined oil, rather than in the vitamin E. The thickest, darkest, vitamin E is likely to be the cleanest.

[Should one avoid taking vitamin E with a food that naturally contains iron (eg., eggs, chocolate, liver)?] Iron in those foods won't interfere.
Vitamin K
K1 is probably a little less active than K2.

[MK-4 vs. MK-7] Taking the vitamin with a meal, it will absorb slowly and steadily, and I don't think will make much difference.

[±25g of spinach and 5-10g of beef liver enough to counteract blood thinning effects of aspirin] I think that amount of liver and spinach is likely to be enough.

Vitamin K is good for protecting muscles and bones, so 500 micrograms to one milligram is good anyway, and it would be protective against even more aspirin.
Washing
If Ivory or other simple soap bars stand in water they make a safe liquid; sodium bicarbonate and carbonate will work, too.

Warm showers can lower stress, and if the bath isn't too warm, it's effective, too; if the bath raises the body temperature, that can cause the metabolism to increase, sometimes causing low blood sugar.
Weight gain
I had similar symptoms, I often ate several thousand calories per day without getting fat, and small noises would shock me awake. Taking thyroid reduced my caloric requirement, and immediately allowed me to sleep deeply. Deficiencies of magnesium, vitamin A, and selenium probably contribute to that metabolic pattern.
Weight Loss
My recommendation is to eat to increase the metabolic rate (usually temperature and heart rate), rather than any particular foods. Usually the increased metabolic rate, with adequate protein, causes some muscle increase, and when that happens the basic calorie requirement will increase. The increase of muscle mass should continue for several weeks, and during that time the weight might increase a little, but usually the loss of water and fat will compensate for the greater muscle mass. I have heard from several people that they think I recommend drinking whole milk, which I don't, because the amount of fat in whole milk is very likely to be fattening when a person is using it to get the needed protein and calcium. When a person wants to lose excess fat, limiting the diet to low fat milk, eggs, orange juice, and a daily carrot or two, will provide the essential nutrients without excess calories.

Per calorie, sugar is less fattening than starch, partly because it stimulates less insulin, and, when it's used with a good diet, because it increases the activity of thyroid hormone. There are several convenient indicators of the metabolic rate--the daily temperature cycle and pulse rate (the temperature should rise after breakfast), the amount of water lost by evaporation, and the speed of relaxation of muscles (Achilles reflex relaxation).

When the polyunsaturated fats in the diet are reduced, the amount of them stored in the tissues decreases for about four years, making it progressively easier to keep the metabolic rate up, and stress hormones down.

The ratio of calcium to phosphate is very important; that's why milk and cheese are so valuable for weight loss, or for preventing weight gain. For people who aren't very active, low fat milk and cheese are better, because the extra fat calories aren't needed.

There are different kinds of weight gain. When a person's metabolic rate increases, and stress hormones decrease, for example when adding two quarts of milk to the daily diet, their muscle mass is likely to increase, even while their fat is decreasing. Since muscle burns fat faster than fat does, caloric requirements will gradually increase.

People on a standard diet will typically burn 200 or 300 more calories per day when that amount of sugar is added to their diet; but if extra fat is added, too, some of the extra calories are likely to be deposited as fat. It's important to watch the signs of changing heat production as the diet changes.

Yes, I know people who have lost weight just by eating a raw carrot every day, reducing endotoxin stress. The liver treats PUFA as it treats toxins, but when their concentration is too high, they poison the detoxifying system. Oleic acid, which we can make ourselves from carbohydrates, greatly activates the detox enzyme system.

Yes, that's why a resistant (antiseptic) fiber such as bamboo shoots or raw carrot helps with weight loss, it reduces endotoxin and the stress hormones, and lets the liver metabolize more effectively.

It's the stored PUFA, released by stress or hunger, that slow metabolism. Niacinamide helps to lower free fatty acids, and good nutrition will allow the liver to slowly detoxify the PUFA, if it isn't being flooded with large amounts of them. A small amount of coconut oil with each meal will increase the ability to oxidize fat, by momentarily stopping the antithyroid effect of the PUFA. Aspirin is another thing that reduces the stress-related increase of free fatty acids, stimulating metabolism. Taking a thyroid supplement is reasonable until the ratio of saturated fats to PUFA is about 2 to 1.

Yes, it's best to lose it slowly. When I tried adding about a tablespoon of coconut oil once a day I lost about two pounds a week, for several weeks, without eating less.

Some muscle-building resistance exercise might help to increase the anabolic ratio, reducing the belly fat.

Yes, most of the research shows that it increases the metabolic rate, tending to prevent obesity.
Wheat
[Sourdough bread] Naturally fermented sourdough is less harmful than standard or unleavened wheat products, but any starch tends to stimulate appetite by activating fat synthesis. The same number of calories in fruit would be less fattening, and would keep your blood sugar steadier, improve your sleep and mental energy.
Wounds
Topical baking soda, honey, and granulated sugar can be helpful for wounds.
Yeast (candida)
Yes, yeast loves PUFA, and becomes invasive when deprived of sugar. The mania has been circulating for almost 40 years. I wrote about it in the early '80s.

Poor digestion does affect the membranes of the mouth, but a fungal infection of the mouth usually happens when the immune system is weak, from hormonal imbalance or poor nutrition, for example, or when there isn't enough saliva, or when the membranes are affected by a specific vitamin deficiency, such as vitamin A. Yeasts are attracted to estrogen and glucose, and when the thyroid hormone is deficient the antibodies that normally protect membranes tend to be deficient. It's important to know for sure exactly what the problem is, since leukoplakia is sometimes mistaken for thrush. A rinse with a little powdered sulfur usually eliminates yeast, vitamin A, along with other adequate nutrition, can often correct leukoplakia.
Yoghurt
In quantities of an ounce or so, for flavoring, it's o.k., but the lactic acid content isn't good if you are using yogurt as a major source of your protein and calcium. It triggers the inflammatory reactions, leading to fibrosis eventually, and the immediate effect is to draw down the liver's glycogen stores for energy to convert it into glucose.
Zinc
Taking zinc orally, 5 or 10 mg, can replenish the body's stores in a few days, but the supplement can oxidize other nutrients in the stomach or intestine, so it isn't good to use it for a long time.
