 You You.................... Okay, normally I would say Georgi Dinkov and Ray Pete, but we only have Ray today. Georgi, hopefully he'll come and we'll work him into what's going on, but it's just going to be a chat between Ray and I. How are you, Ray? Very good. Okay, so immediately before we talked about your newsletter, I wanted to get into, I felt like I kind of approached the nutrition topic a little bit off center. on the last episode. I thought I thought it was good but I thought my questions to you were kind of holding you up like an authority and it wasn't it wasn't conscious I wasn't trying to do it but I was unimpressed with my questions to you so so maybe I don't know is there anything you can think of that would uh kind of broaden the scope of what we were talking about last time in terms of approaching nutrition and and of course that will probably lead right into your new newsletter. Sure. Well, nutrition is as complex and open and undefined as metaphysics or cosmology or anything. It's a process of exploring and learning and figuring things out, and so it's never a closed book, never a finished subject. What is, what is the problem with authoritarianism in nutrition? Like if somebody says, oh, Ray Pete says to eat 100 grams of protein and 200 grams of carbohydrate, like what, what does that negate from the individual trying to figure things out? Everything is always changing and always individual and always changed by context. And so what's true for one person today? Where they are will necessarily be somewhat different when they're in a different place doing different things. It's always looking at your problems immediately in your context, and to understand those, it helps to look at your history, how you got to where you are and what you want to do. to get beyond the present. So all the dimensions have to be flexible and so your digestive system reflects the things you've done in the past. Your whole being is taking form, assimilating things you've experienced and intend to experience. So you have to think of yourself as an inventive participant in everything, including your choices of foods. Well, given how complex everything is and everything's a moving target, like how do you even approach the subject? With what you've been doing and how it has worked for you. If you've been living on sweet potatoes and pork fat and you're doing okay in the middle age, then you don't see much need for a change. But what if somebody was grown up eating cereal and fruit snacks? They probably wouldn't have grown up very much. Oh no, that's me. So, okay, so would the context change if somebody's writing you an email and saying, hey Ray, I have a low pulse rate, a low temperature, a high cholesterol constipation? Is that what makes the suggestions in context with what the person is explaining? Yeah, all of those things point to hypometabolism, low thyroid function. And then, okay, so if you're saying something like, protein, carbohydrate, calcium, etc., you're giving those facts to that person and then it's up to them, like we talked about last time, the creative act of conversation and then that person assimilating the info and trying to extract something out of it that means something to them and their life. Yeah, because their digestive system is going to have its unique oddities. It might turn out that the high protein diet that would quickly cure someone if they already have a sensitivity to serotonin and tryptophan, for example, that they might have to work into that very carefully with a diet emphasizing more gelatin than the highest quality proteins. And then when somebody says, emails you and says, I'm doing the Ray Pete diet, what, what is your, um, what, what do you think of that? First ask them what they're eating. So you wouldn't automatically assume that that was, so, so just to be completely honest here. So I, I told you. That I don't like that term, you know, and I used to edit it out of podcasts, but it has gained a lot of traction, but you, you think even using that term, I'm not, I'm not saying you think this, but, but that it's probably kind of, um, to really, uh, reduce your work into silly territory, saying something like repeat diet, you think. Pretty much from, from what I hear is that people are eating on the repeat diets at least. Usually excludes eating a lot of bread and green salads and beans, but those are, I think, a few of the things that people generally realize can be harmful. Maybe you could critique my approach, but I feel like when I chat with a lot of people, there's always diet stuff, you know, but it almost seems like if they're talking to me, it's like past the point of no return with dietary intervention. Is that a bad orientation to have? Because usually they'll have labs as well, and I think the person will generally be kind of at the end of the road. They'll have tried veganism or low carb or carnivore or etc, etc, etc. And I'm almost inclined to suggest the vitamin D to read hypothyroidism to unsuspected illness to get into thyroid and stuff because, and of course, doing the dietary interventions, but I don't know, could you say after 20 or 25 that a person is like, I mean, I'm sure you could say earlier, but that it's very hard to get the metabolic rate going just with food alone. Oh, yeah, almost everyone benefits from adding a little bit of thyroid. The human diet historically, probably always included some supplemental animal thyroid, whether it came from a chicken stew or a fish soup or sausages or even blood. There was always some supplement coming from their food. Since 1940, that has been legally banned from the American food supply and pretty much other industrialized countries imitated the U.S., requiring slaughterhouses to take out the thyroid glands and people generally just don't eat the blood. It's sort of a taboo. Well, countries that save the blood and make tacos out of it or something are getting a little bit of extra hormones of various types. Something I've noticed, and I don't know if you feel the same, but there's something about thyroid that a lot of people don't feel comfortable with, like they'll take progesterone or DHEA or pregnenolone. Or they'll even be taking other supplements like ashwagandha or rhodiola or just you name it, but thyroid is like a lot, a crossing the line to a lot of people. Is there... I think the drug companies and the doctors that have been educated under their influence are responsible for that. The same thing that caused the agriculture department to order slaughterhouses to remove it from the food supply. Broder Barnes tells some of the stories, for example, in the 1930s. He observed that thyroid deficiency, among other things, caused an extremely high rate of heart attacks and circulatory disease. Infectious diseases, circulatory diseases, and cancer were the main killers. hypothyroid population. But when he started popularizing that, there was a reaction. And JAMA published a story about a doctor who had given a patient who had just suffered a massive heart attack a supplement of, I think, two grains of armory thyroid starting right off on a full standard dose rather than working into it. Over a period of weeks, and the patient died, and so that created the propaganda that natural thyroid could kill you with a heart attack. That sort of thing was amplified when the synthroid, I think, was the first one on the market with a synthetic thyroxine product. I was in junior high around that time and there were several fat kids and most of the kids already at that time were seeing doctors regularly and almost simultaneously two or three of my fat friends said that... that they didn't have a hormone problem, they were just gluttons. That had been taught to the doctors who taught it to their overweight patients, and that went with doctors ordering their patients to stop taking thyroid, if an old empirical doctor had recognized it. People with chronic infections or obesity or any of the 30 or so classical symptoms of hypothyroid, if people had been doing well taking armor thyroid, they went to the modern update. The well-trained doctors told him to stop taking it because it was dangerous. As I say, in obesity, is part of the look of obesity just that accumulation of mucopolysaccharides? Yeah, usually it is. It's a mixture of Cushing's symptoms, high stress. Hormones of various sorts, and they can go in the direction of high estrogen or high serotonin or high histamine, high cortisol, high aldosterone, an imbalance of the androgens, many different hormonal directions, just because your thyroid is. Not giving you the energy to contextualize your physiology, to round everything off. I'm searching for it right now, I'm sure I will not be able to find it. But I feel like one of the most important things you've ever said that really helped me clarify my extremely blurry picture of physiology is, you said when your thyroid is low, your pituitary doesn't have much to do and your... your ovaries don't have much to do either and all the glands in your body have a easy job when your your thyroid is high and so I appreciated that so much because if you listen to other people in the health world it's like so ridiculously complicated to figure out like okay where does LH and growth hormone and prolactin and FSH like it's it's it's it's it's like incomprehensible without a model like that you put together of the energy uh stress when the energy is low the activation of the stress systems happens i i think it's helpful to have in mind a mental image of a libertarian world or an anarchist society in which everyone knows what to do and how to take care of themselves that's when energy is abundant and your thyroid is good and when the well-distributed energy availability isn't there then you have to look to be pushed to do what you're supposed to be doing and that's where the thyroid, the pituitary comes in the pituitary is roused in proportion to how everything is failing and so it pushes you this way and that way to make up for what you should be. Doing it just on the basis of your cellular needs and cellular knowledge. And good old W.D. Denkla, I mean you weren't kidding. I feel like you've integrated his work so well. Like all the papers were perfectly in sync with what you were saying. I was really shocked when I got a hold of a couple of them. Yeah, it's funny how he just disappeared from the world of knowledge. He was sent to the backwoods, maybe? What was it, Dave McCarron? The calcium hypertension dude? Yeah, yeah. Okay, let's take a small break here. Ray Pete is on the line with me. Georgie, I'm not sure where he is. I hope he's okay. So, Ray, your newsletter is available by email. Ray Pete's newsletter. Go ahead. Yeah, this issue isn't quite ready. I sent you a draft of it, but I'm still working on it. Awesome. So, but people can subscribe to your newsletter by sending $28 to raypeets, with an s, newsletter at gmail.com. Is that right? Right. And then they can send that same email address. They can send any of the titles of your books for that. And we'll talk about Progeste a little bit later, I think. And you know what? We never talked about those videos surfacing from the on the back of a tiger. Did you think anything about those videos being released on YouTube? I haven't listened to the whole thing that you said. I've heard enough recording it. that those were fun to listen to. And then before we pass by this whole subject, I hope I'm not embarrassing you or anything, but I think people shouldn't eat things that damage them and should eat things that taste good and that provide the essential nutrients while making them feel good and function well. Is that a diet, question mark? And so is there anything left to speak about that in such an authoritarian nutrition world? Even your stupid apprentice is kind of misinterpreting things as well, and so any room to clarify? I'm okay with that as a statement that what tastes good is very important. impulses, your needs are very often are responsible for what you're eating. But if you're supplied with something not quite like what you need, then you might, your taste might cause you to do something like overeating on sugar or salt, where you're cravings are biologically logical, but if the way you are led to satisfy your cravings is abnormal, then your body might be tricked into malfunctioning, even though it's following its impulses. When your thyroid function is low, your blood sugar becomes unstable. And so you tend to crave sweets and alternatively salt, which helps you to use the glucose efficiently. But if you're mixed foods that would supply those needs, if they're very distorted, then you might... not correct the problem by following your instincts, so you have to use your other perceptions and thought processes to figure out just what it is your body is telling you to do. What was that H.G. Wells quote? It's like, nature never appeals to intellect unless intuition fails, or something else fails? Your instincts? Instincts fail. Yeah. Just before we get comments, I don't think I'm stupid. I'm just joking, everybody. Okay, but the one thing is, could somebody be in such a bad place that their orienting reflex and intuition is just so jaded and blurry that, for lack of a better word, or suggesting something to them, would that still be kind of a bad situation? How would you approach something like that? Immersed in the forces of their authoritarian surroundings, the culture that they have integrated is telling them to do certain things, like go to the doctor if you feel sick, and if your body doesn't... play a role in those cultural instructions, then you'll go to the doctor, go to your job, maybe go to church, do whatever the culture prescribes, and ignore what your body is telling you. But anyone can start to listen to themselves, and when they... are mentally hearing instructions, a conscience telling them what they should be doing, if they listen carefully, they'll be able to detect the source of where that instruction is coming from. And the guru, I don't know what he was officially called, but George Gurdjieff... his basic principle was, remember yourself, and that really meant looking at what your body impulses are doing, and put that into conjunction with what your environment is ordering you to do, and like you call up an image of who is speaking. the instructions to you, and then check how that image and set of instructions goes with your heart plexus and your solar plexus, and check out what it does to your body, and usually you feel a shrinking, oppressed feeling in your body when you hear those conscience voices speaking to you. I feel the opposite when I eat a cherimoya. You said G.I. Gurdjieff, right? Is that the guru? He has a quote, without self-knowledge, without understanding the working and functions of his machine, man cannot be free, and he cannot govern himself, and he will always remain a slave. That sounds pretty solid. Okay, great stuff. I'm a little bit, is trepidatious the right word, to get into your newsletter because it's such a dense newsletter and I don't know, I'd love to be able to summarize it but I wouldn't do it justice. I guess what was your motivation for writing it specifically? It was sort of a shotgun approach to explaining a general approach. Like a mosaic, you put down a lot of the material that is going to make up the image and you hope that when you get enough of the material together, you will recognize what it adds up to, the general meaning. And so it's just a collection of these. Last 120 years of 200 years actually of observations about how organisms work and how they might work and then looking at the very clear experiments showing definitely that they don't work in certain ways and do work in other ways that have been ignored such as the you purpose and intentionality of single celled organisms all the way down to bacteria making decisions and planning and changing their behavior according to what they perceive the environment to require. If bacteria can do it, why can't a human brain cell do something at least? Partly as competent as that. I think the culture has created, partly to instill helpless attitude in the public, has created this doctrine that our brain cells are among the stupidest of all parts of creation. So I think that's very strongly committed to it. signal by on and off information, yes or no, nothing approaching the infinite judgment ability to bacteria or planaria or amoebas display. Something that you reminded me of something is like somebody everybody has like kind of their desired outcome for society or how we should organize ourselves but the gist I get from you is that that hasn't even been like an optimal way of doing that hasn't even been approached or maybe it has slightly with Marxism or something but like an environment that actually supported our physiology or biology or whatever hasn't even been broached yet. Yeah that's someone like Kropotkin put together biology and culture and politics into a single picture. And there's something you mentioned in this article that I haven't thought about for a long time is the primary how do you say that psyllium and that's like a little like you call it sensing organelle or something on the cell. What. Yeah like our retinal cells have this little finger tip it's like a psyllium except it doesn't wiggle it internally resonates with what's impinging upon it and that resonance is made available to the connecting nervous system. Same with the ear or the olfactory nerves or the touch, movement detectors all through the body. Each brain cell even has its own little antenna tuning it into the environmental conditions. Okay, so we're going to pause really quickly. Ray, I'm actually going to hang up on you. I'm going to call Georgie, then I'm going to call you back and I'm going to pause the screen everybody. And so you guys will be hearing music and we'll get Georgie on the line. Is that okay, Ray? Okay. Okay, so I'll call you back in one or like two minutes or so. Okay. Okay. Okay, bye Ray. Okay, hang on everybody. You You You Browser? Okay, Georgie, we're live. Ray, we're live. Okay. So there's Georgie. Everybody, this was probably my mistake. And so apologies to Georgie. I think I told you the wrong time. Okay. So Georgie, we were going through, first, we kind of talked about nutrition. We got all that out of my system, which I need to talk about. And then now we're going through Ray's newsletter. We just talked about the cilium, the sensing organelle of the cell. And Ray, what are some of the other critical... things in this newsletter that you feel like are very important? That's the theme that comes back over and over is the conscious purpose of each of the component cells that, like the hologram idea, is that conscious memories... are not localized in any part of the tissue, but people like Carl Pribram was the outstanding figure in that line of thinking that the cortex, through a network of synapses, is able to make a hologram that records awareness images. It's in a non-localized hologram manner and that is still limited by the discrete nature of synaptic individual action even though the pattern imposed on that network of synaptic individual action is still limited by the discrete nature of synaptic individual action. Conditions or states, even though that's holographic, the underlying substance of the brain function that Prebram advocated was still the old-fashioned behaviorist mechanical on-off. A nerve cell is nothing but a switch-like conveyor of yes or no information rather than something transmitting the complex image-like perceptions of each of the cells, receptor cells or the nerve cells themselves containing a primary cilium in addition to messages they're getting from other nerve cells. Trying to show that everything that denies the complete participation of every cell in our conscious purposeful activity, everything that denies that is based on an arbitrary assumption which ultimately is a false assumption. That leads to behaviorism and mechanism and reductionism. I have a question about holograms. Can a group of organisms regardless of species can sort of bend together and form a super hologram that combines their consciousness into sort of like the collective consciousness that we all talk about? Yeah, if they are sensitive and care to tune in. to their surroundings if they put their primary cilium in contact with the draining cytoplasm Then they should be able to pick up the whole worldview and metaphysics of whoever they're touching. Do you think that may explain the ancestral memories and people have been vicious in contacts with people that were they've been dead for a long time basically, they're like completely materializing that. A portion of the collective consciousness. I think it's important not to rule out anything that not to assume limits to awareness that aren't based on some kind of real evidence. So maybe that could also explain Carl Jung's idea of the archetypes. These visions are simply people. Connecting to the collective consciousness and extracting information from it. Yeah. And Michael Persinger's view that the resonant electromagnetic fields of the Earth and of our brain are coordinated, resonating with each other. And so brain to brain by way of the Earth's resonant chamber. Ray, you're always extremely, you point out how things are fluid and changing all the time and that, but in the cosmic clocks book, like if something, if he's right, and the seasons are imbuing people with kind of essence or something, isn't that something that's not really changing that much? Oh, sure. Gravity and all of those things. The absolute meaning of... of a certain frequency of vibratory energy. Each thing has its intrinsic qualities. Every substance has its unique identity. And so the surroundings are part of your identity at any moment. The de-abstraction of consciousness means that our being in its concreteness takes into account and assimilates everything around us, including the state of the sun and the planets and the earth and other people in that system. So if two people are born in the same month, they might have a similar vibration, is that right? Yeah, they are more closely attuned to certain ideas and patterns. That's all it means, but that's a lot. You think that may explain part of astrology? Yeah, that's what the cosmic clock... Michel Gouclin. Where does that idea go off the rails, though? I'm so stupid. What's the thing that people read? They're horoscopes. Is there some point at which it becomes total nonsense? Yeah, but that's just a literary genre. It can be interesting, but it's just a person creating a cultural artifact that, to some extent, recognizes that we are in the cosmos together. Well, here's a question. If you were going to spend your life with somebody, would the month that they were born in matter to you? I don't know. I think the clash of frequencies might make it more interesting than too much harmony of frequencies. So there's an optimal antagonism, so to speak, contrarianism that a lifetime partner should provide otherwise it becomes boring if they're too harmonized? That is sort of my impression that you want to... be able to go off independently and come back and keep renewing others with your odd and idiosyncratic learnings The Chinese have a proverb that love is not so much gazing harmoniously into each other's eyes but it's about two people looking together in a similar direction I thought I had said that OK, then it's a resonance, I guess, for across across time, like somebody may have plagiarized it off of your website and then presented as a Taoist Taoist saying from like the 6th century or something. OK, well, let's how about this? How about we talk about Progesti and then we'll get into some questions because we have some really excellent questions, I think. I have one more question to the collective consciousness and Rupert Sheldrake. I don't know if you saw he did a famous experiment with another person who was a contrarian and said it's impossible to have a collective learning experience and extracting collective knowledge from the ether and then they did these experiments with I think with chicks, like they were training them and then like each successive generation of little chicks was able to learn faster and faster a new task. So is there anything special that's required in order to be able to tune in into that collective consciousness and knowledge like a fast metabolism or are things that interfere with that process? In other words, making you more and more isolated from the collective consciousness? Yeah, I think everything metabolic and neurological affects it. Do you know who Andrea Pujaric was? Henry or Andrea was his first name, but Pujaric wrote a couple of books exploring what it is that opens the consciousness to remote viewing, for example. He got the Pentagon involved and interested in it. He was seeing it in terms of a balance between the parasympathetic and sympathetic system in the context that I think Michael Persinger comes the closest to explaining how these nervous system balances could be operating. I saw when people were asleep or extremely relaxed. He imagined that their nervous system is able to sort of extend its feelers out without regard to distance, for example, tuning into the Earth's resonance. But during anxiety, there's a contraction and everything tends to fall towards the anxious center. And so, if a person is in the sleep or relaxed parasympathetic state, their feelers are out and if someone related to them is in a crisis, anxiety state of adrenergic dominance, the relaxed feelers will be drawn to tune in and focus on that center of......crisis or anxiety or despair. And I think that might be where Michael Persinger took up his basic orientation of Adria Pujaric was writing in the 50s and 60s. I thought the Pentagon was also using LSD to drug some of the remote viewers and see if that enhances the performance. Mushrooms too. What do you think materialized from that research? How do you think it was applied? Do you know anything about that? There are several videos of some of the people who were involved working for the Pentagon related. Research senators, like the Stanford Research Institute, they have their personal experience statements in videos that I think are worth watching. Maybe they transitioned to Project Blue Beam for a fake alien invasion? Say that again? I said maybe they transitioned to Project Blue Beam for a fake alien invasion? Oh, oh, oh. I'm just joking. Have you seen the news lately? They're always coming out of the Pentagon saying, more and more UFO sightings, something big is about to happen, and everybody's glued to their TV, which I guess is the goal, right? As long as they're not rioting. Yeah, I think it has served as a distraction for a long time. Okay, well, let's get into these questions because they're, let's talk about progesterone first. Ray, do you have any stories that you can grasp in your large bag of amazing stories about progesterone that we can talk about? Oh, just about any subject you want to apply it to, dementia, epilepsy, sunburn, and so traumatic injury, chronic conditions of all sorts, arthritis, asthma, pimples, acne, all kinds of stress conditions, all the cellular levels, everything from personality problems all the way down to whether a cell is inflamed. This isn't directly related to progesterone, but a quote of yours that I sent to a lot of people is, I forgot what newsletter it was, but you say something like, using progesterone alone is not a good approach, like you have to figure out what the problem is, and usually that's related to low thyroid function. And so if a problem isn't miraculously kind of solved by progesterone, thyroid was probably the next thing to investigate. Yeah, if you think you're dying of a migraine. or a seizure, progesterone itself, a good dose of that can very quickly bring you out of the problem. But then you have to figure out what it was that put you into that unstable condition that needed progesterone. And then last thing on this, some people are saying like, you know, if your nutrition is so good, why do you need? To add hormones and maybe a good response to that would be our environment is so terribly awful that maybe just even taking thyroid isn't enough kind of defense from kind of the onslaught of metabolic problems we're faced with day to day. Yeah, yeah, even thyroid and milkshakes and quesadillas aren't always enough to... to make up for the horrors that are imposed on us and some of the natural defects of the environment, like we probably should live more like naked mole rats sleeping in burrows in family clusters where we would be producing a proper amount of carbon dioxide. So that we would be soaked in carbon dioxide for a good part of our lives, making up for the natural imbalance created by geological changes. I read a book recently about the difference in sleep between these days and back in the Middle Ages. Apparently, people back then were sleeping in barnyards with animals, 15 to 20 people all huddled together. And I guess the rate of the general disease, maybe that's not a reason why it was much lower. They were living like naked mole rats. Yeah, having a cow and a pig in the house when you're asleep. It makes life more fun. You completely stole that out of my brain. I was going to make a joke about a long time ago, you said like an optimal society would include our animal friends. And I was going to make a joke about that. And then you said it, Georgie. That's really wild. That's how they used to live, apparently. I mean, it was a book on anthropology. I don't remember the author names right now, but he said that it's drastic. Our current mode of life is drastically different. And judging from the archaeological findings and the examinations they did on bones and whatever records, other records they could unearthed, that he's saying that apparently their lifestyle was conducive to much better health. They didn't have these diseases back then. Yeah, I think carbon dioxide is always a basic factor of stress relief or stress production depending on the concentration. I have a question, difference between thyroid and progesterone. Is there anything thyroid does uniquely that progesterone either completely does not do or is much weaker or less capable of achieving? Yeah, the mitochondrial, you can uncouple the mitochondria by increasing your thyroid temporarily to shift the ratio towards carbon dioxide from lactate and progesterone tends to stabilize the mitochondria. In an efficient, well-coupled condition, so like to get rid of moles or skin cancers or such, a temporary, officially, overdose of thyroid hormone obscene. A fairly large uterine fibroid, for example, when someone was willing to stay slightly hyperthyroid, keeping a resting pulse around 110, for three months, a large fibroid would shrink, permitting a pregnancy to proceed. And the same with getting rid of other types of tumors. Things that require corrective adjustments of the tissues. But I thought that progesterone is thermogenic, wouldn't that imply that it also uncouples to a degree? I think it achieves it by reducing loss as much as by maintaining, of preventing the bypass of the mitochondria. keeps the mitochondria going efficiently, but at the same time it's reducing nitric oxide in the skin and preventing unwanted heat loss. Okay, great stuff. Okay, so this is our first question and the person quotes Heraclitus and the quote is, Polymathy does not teach intelligence of things. And then their question is, Much learning does not teach understanding. You can't really know something unless you experience it. Are Ray's thoughts analogous to this? Yeah, you have to at least imagine experiencing it. It's not the typical way of indoctrination and school learning. It is by way of formulas, rather than at least an imagined experience, and literature and art should teach you to get your nervous system in the habit of thinking experientially. Rather than in terms of algorithms and rote formulas. Do you think the sterilization of learning, in other words, everybody's been turned into not just a bookworm, but a very rigid bookworm, may account for the fragmentation of society? Everybody's learned, but nobody really knows much about the real world these days. Yeah, true, true kind of learning. It always takes into account our world in common, and so that is always an essential aspect of any little thing that you might know, how to play a music instrument or how to make a fancy horse saddle, or how to build a building, it always has to. take into account the overall world that we have in common. So basically by preventing people from having common experiences, they're essentially guaranteed that we can't understand each other, no matter how much we read about each other. Great stuff. Okay, this one says, does Ray believe that some principles are worth dying for? I don't know. I knew you were going to say that, why? Who wrote the principle? Whose principle is it? You have to look at the metaphysics behind the principle. Make sure it isn't based on false assumptions and false metaphysics. So, dying as an alternative to getting a vaccine is not rational? It's a reconnection. So, say a hypothetical thing where it was like death or getting a vaccine, despite the horrors of getting a vaccine, killing yourself or something would not be a reasonable option? No. It's better to be wounded and deformed by the vaccine than to be dead. I was going to say war is, what is it, the expression is war is old men talking and young men dying. So if somebody else wrote the principle, I'm with Ray on this one, that you want to be very careful whose principles you try to die for. Right, so often there's an evil ulterior motive behind the principle. Just to play devil's advocate, what about the phrase, like, some things are worse than death? Like, what if life was so much suffering after getting maimed by a vaccine? I think your organism takes care of that. The stress hormones rise to the point that it simply finishes off all of the processes. Well, I want to go on to this next question. What's like the, you know how W.D. D'Enclos was trying to search for the death hormone? Do you feel like you figured out anything that he did not figure out? Oh yeah, there's no death hormone. It's just the death struggle of the organism against these bad environmental problems. And perceiving that there's no progress, right, because if it's a great struggle but the organism senses that there's progress, then this shouldn't necessarily lead to death. No, those processes are really last-ditch survival attempts. The zooming up of your growth hormone and prolactin and corticotropin. All of those are well-meaning survival attempts, but they just accelerate all of the poor adaptations we're making to an inadequate environment. So those pituitary hormones are increasing, but maybe they cause prolonged hypoxia and that leads to death, is that right? Well, all of our... adaptations are to a defective environment to one degree or another. If you have to change your physiology to fit into the environment, the bigger those changes are, the more your pituitary hormones are involved and the more it's diverting you from what you would really like to be doing. And so the growth hormone has potential benefit, but when you're forced to keep secreting it along with ACTH and serotonin and so on, the outcome wasn't intended, but what it means is that you have adapted yourself. For example, secreting more and harder insoluble collagen, turning yourself into a tanned piece of leather, makes you tough in the sense that it can stand up to the environment a little longer, but it isn't a good adaptive. course to take. If we can improve the environment, have very good nutrition, very good carbon dioxide rich atmosphere, a good amount of temperature and sunlight and so on, then we can start mobilizing our intentional. adaptive processes. And in that environment, the effort to adapt and become something else, you will tend to dissolve the hardened collagen, remove the calcium from the soft tissues, put it back in your bones, and reconstruct a living vital organism. So the adaptive intention in a bad environment leads you into degeneration, and in a good environment leads you to restoration. I was going to say, like three or four years ago, there was a doctor and he linked something on Twitter, and it was an article on fasting increasing growth hormone, and he tweeted, this is what Ray Pete does not understand, and he was inferring like the fasting. was increasing the growth hormone, and you want to increase your growth hormone. And I just had a little chuckle. OK, next question that the recent study on reversing the human, the aging of the human immune system, they specifically administered DHEA to block the aging, the pro aging hormones of growth hormone. And I strongly suspected the benefits that they saw from these treatments due to the DHEA. But it still pays off that they actually were aware that growth hormone has strongly pro-aging effects. So you may want to send him this article or reply to his tweet because it's pretty recent. It's from last year and it was in humans. Great stuff. I will do. OK, so let's get to this next one. What is it about Aristotle that makes him a good scientist? And what of his methods did the medieval scholastics fail to adopt? The idea of becoming. I think he took seriously Heraclitus's basic view of the world as everything being in process. So I see Aristotle as a Heraclitian process philosopher, totally breaking away from the platonic. He didn't have a good data collection system, maybe the best in the world at the time, but it wasn't adequate to create 20th century physics quite. I remember an old interview. Maybe it was John Berkhausen and he was like, Ray, why do you think William Blake was so smart and you said he didn't go to school? Is there a similar thing for Aristotle? Is there any way you can figure out how he knew so much or his good orientation? No. Okay, fair enough. Okay, Georgie, interrupt me at any time. Okay, this is the next one from... Steve, he says, how does the intangible of stress become a tangible phenomenon in the cell? Where does it start? Reduction of energy, I think, is the general thing. I mean, not getting enough energy to do what it needs to adapt, and so it sends out signals that are... once more energy, and that turns on emergency organismic level processes like making more ACTH and cortisol to bring up the blood sugar and get past the temporary crisis, but the whole ultimate life. It needs to improve its use of oxygen and glucose to properly restore the energy it needs. Just a note, thanks for that, Ray. Just a note, all the super chats or super stickers, whatever they're called, will be donated to Ray. So just to let you guys know. Thank you, Ray. OK, this next one, we are. Going through these. OK, it says, how does Dr. Pete organize his reading and research given he reads across various topics, but is able to put disparate yet related things together? Does he have some sort of note taking system? Basically, I'm intrigued. OK, you get the point. How do you organize your research, Ray? I don't. My notes over the years are the most disorganized thing. You can imagine. Occasionally, they're helpful to remind me where I was, but definitely not like having a card file of things that I've read, but just going from one thing that interests me to another. Okay, just a minute. So this is shocking to me. So when... Somebody you emails you about something and then you reply to them and then you attach like eight abstracts Where you're going to PubMed and finding those abstracts or what? Yeah, some of them I've put into my computer over the years for different reasons, but usually I find things on PubMed that will answer a person's questions. Even though I consider PubMed to be largely a propaganda source, it's a leaky propaganda source. that I'm reading currently, somehow miraculously in a few minutes later, I find other things that pop up that they're disparate but similar to use the quote from the person. Have you noticed the same thing, Ray? That if you're reading on a certain topic, basically a similar concept will pop up in another article or in another source of information without you actually searching for it? Yep. That contributes to my basic view of how the brain and the universe work. There's sort of a magic synchronicity, probably just because it seems like synchronicity or magic just because we aren't clearly aware of the mechanisms that make it happen. Have you noticed that children's play is structured very similarly? They basically base everything quite naturally based on interest, right? They're not being told what to do when they're little. And their attention shifts pretty quickly, but they always seem to be heavily engaged into what they're doing, almost as if in a state of meditation. Yeah, and with kids, their choices of foods tend to work the same way. They'll eat a lot of something once and then maybe not touch it again for a month. They're responding to something in their physiology and I think that is true in their play. There's something in their physiology that wants to be developed and that's a true play. So have you had similar experiences as an adult with food, which is related to the next question that I think Danny is going to read. In other words, sometimes you eat a lot of something and then... the next week you encounter the same thing and you're like, I don't really feel like eating at all. Yeah, I think it works the same in adults sometimes, but more often in children. Georgi, can you push your microphone back a little bit? It's, for some reason, clipping a little bit. Like, not close to you, farther away. Oh, okay. Like this? Yeah, or if you move the actual unit a little bit back. Yeah, okay, good, thanks for that. Okay, so speaking of that question, so this person made sure to clarify and they said they weren't asking this so they could copy you, they were just curious. And so this person says, can I go over what his past week of eating has looked like, meal examples, new preferences and tastes, or new experiments with food slash meal ideas? They tend to cycle. Today, so far, I've had an omelet, milk, orange juice, and coffee, and then some leftover mushroom soup and carrot salad and orange juice and coffee for the afternoon. Yesterday, I had an appetite for a cheese taco, toasted. A taco with melted cheese on it, and it just is what I feel I have an appetite for that particular day. I think our last chat with you increased tortilla sales by like a thousand percent all over the world. Ray, you're responsible for the inflation of food we're seeing all over the US. I noticed that many years ago when I... discovered that the Safeway store was selling necks, chicken necks, at something like a dollar a pound and I found two or three thyroid glands in every package, a couple of pounds of necks. I mentioned that in my nutrition classes and never saw a package of necks again, they constantly were pining them up. Then safely stopped selling them, I guess, when the word got out that they contained thyroid cleanse. You've got to be careful about those liver sources and other things that you need to feel well. Yeah. For sure. Okay. Next question here. And then I was interested in, after these questions, asking you some things just about, of course, the culture stuff that we always go over, but I thought this would be a nice break from just getting questions from Georgie and I. Okay. Where, um, and now I'd lost my place in these questions. Thanks everybody for watching. Give this episode a like again, all super chats or super stickers or whatever, or donated to Ray and a sincere appreciation for Ray and Georgie being here and taking their time to do this, uh, for everybody. Okay. Uh, um, building off of the idea that when thyroid functioning prop, uh, when thyroid is functioning properly, you can think any way you want to about anything. Can you explain more about the physiological aspects of how our energetic state influences our thoughts and perception? Is there an energetic component to thoughts that matches biological energy, or is it more so that a higher energetic state? And I think I clipped this question, but you get the idea. Yeah, I think the high energy state is a relaxed state of readiness. The infant brain with a very high metabolic rate easily goes into complete relaxed sleep and replenishes its energy so it's ready for another episode of very intense activity. That kind of episodic energy bursts. I think tend to give you an image-oriented kind of chunky approach to reality and the problems you're thinking of, rather than just doggedly assembling bits and constructing a knowledge system out of learned bits. It gives you an animal quality to your episodes of learning and thinking. And like ruminating on the past so that's that junky quality you're talking about, like just like thinking about things that have no literally no importance and can't move you forward. Well, sometimes it's necessary to think about where you've been to better understand why you want to go in a certain direction. So ruminating can be constructive. One last thing. So I think he's specifically talking about that quote. Somebody emailed you about trauma like a long time ago, and you basically said if the toxicants and the the. Energy substances and things are right. You can kind of think how you want to about past events. And so so that just includes kind of intermittently thinking about things that have happened in the past. That doesn't mean you reject what's happened to you. You just you're just not stuck on them. Is that right? Yes. My view of memory is that it's a developmental state, even though it's. Passes in a flash, still it changes our development all through the organism, every little so-called memory, memorable experience that we have is changing the structure of our organism. And it's simply scanning the state of our organism when, when you're ruminating or considering organism. the meaning of the past. It's all present in the state of your organism. When you're remembering, you're really being present to yourself. Interesting. Okay, this one is, may you ask Ray what he thinks about some people being more subservient to authority than others. Why do you, why do some have this innate rebellious attitude? While others follow the narrative, no questions asked. It has a lot to do with your metabolic energy, how much DHEA and progesterone and pregnenolone are circulating through your system so that you feel resilience and resilience enough to reject every little thing that seems unhealthy. Great stuff. I didn't know if this was true, but this next one says thoughts on Chernobyl steadily reactivating. Is that right? Say it again. It says thoughts on Chernobyl steadily reactivating. Is that a thing? I'm not sure what it means. The area around Chernobyl continues to be......extremely contaminated and deadly. There were a few articles, I think it was last week, at least the ones that I saw, that said that the detectors that are there in the sealed reactor that is under a concrete sarcophagus, they're detecting levels of radiation that are increasing and can only be produced if the chain reaction is somehow intensifying. Oh, that's definitely possible. Yeah, they were thinking of essentially sending a robot in there and basically sealing the actual reactor, the smaller portion of it, with I think graphite, is what they said, to sort of stop the chain reaction. They will try to stop the chain reaction, but they also kind of hedge in their bets and saying it may actually trigger a nuclear blast, so we're not promising any results. Yeah. Okay, we'll just do a few more of these and then we'll let you go at, well it's my time, your 6.30 time for sure, Ray, so it won't keep you too long. Okay, how to stop, slow down body hair and beard hair growth. Could topical progesterone work or something else? There were studies published in France in the 1960s of topical progesterone showed women with definite sideburns. And whiskers and masculine chest hair who through topical progesterone, two or three months later, showed them with a feminine hairless face and chest. And same thing for a man, right? That would be the estrogen maybe activating the adrenals and causing the skin to kind of be androgenized. Is that right? Yeah. When you're deficient in those protective hormones, especially pregnenolone and progesterone, then you're likely to overdrive the stress hormones and come out with too much androgens, especially in women, and too much estrogen in men. On just an update, on the coke here, now all of the bottles say reducido azucar, and then I talked to the dude that works at the etienda, and he said all of the coke now is like that in Mexico, and so that is a thing now, like they've just changed the formula of coke, and all of it tastes different now, and the dude confirmed that, just give an update for anybody who cares, so that is a very sad day. What kind of sugar is this? I wish I had written it down, but it was like a mixture of new types of sugar. This is totally new to you, right? Yep, I hadn't heard it at all. It's a total... I told the guy it was muy malo and he laughed. Okay, so let's get to these last... I skipped over a few, but let's get to... Okay, this was a popular one. Is there a way to remineralize teeth and heal cavities? Basically, no. If the enamel is just slightly eroded and the protein framework is still there, it can be very nicely remineralized. But once the decay has gone through the thin layer of dentine and has broken down the dentine... gone through the thin layer of enamel and entered the dentine, then the tooth from the inside can close off the progress. If you have a very stable hormonal vitamin D calcium balance, the tooth from the inside is constantly... renewing the cytoplasm in the dentine channels and will close off, create resistance to the advancing cavity. But I've never heard of being able to fill a cavity from the inside. I can simply stop the progress. Have you seen that study that got published in 2018, I think it was basically they showed that applying aspirin topically to the tooth despite being acidic actually led to tooth regeneration. I forget how much was regenerated, but it reversed that process and some actual regeneration happened. Was it in the dentine or just the enamel surface? That I don't know. I mean, it may have been just a very, very shallow cavity and that's why it regenerated, but I remember it was aspirin, it was topical solution, and they were surprised too. They thought that because it's acidic, it should actually erode tooth decay even more, but in fact, it actually led to some regeneration. Yeah, I think the acid theory of tooth decay has... a tremendous weakness, the idea that bacteria just make an acid. I think it's much more complicated than that, involving antibodies and settler handling of the minerals. You may have seen it, there was a study earlier than that, back in 2015, which said that... unbeknownst to most people, competitive athletes have extremely poor dental health, and that study tied that poor dental health to low thyroid function because of the constant exertion they were having. I didn't see that one, but thyroid is the main regulator of the health of your saliva and the quality of your saliva. It really is in charge of what happens to your teeth on the outside and it tends to correspond to the vitality of the pulp chamber which maintains the dentine from the inside. But definitely the thyroid is the main hormone governing the quality of saliva. Great stuff. So I was thinking for the last 25 minutes we would just tune in to the great reset and is there anything new that, of course there is, but is there anything to focus on that's happening that's mildly interesting or reveals something that they're doing? The established lies are coming apart and resistance is starting to show some effects. Do you mean the Wuhan lab stuff? Yeah, Ron Unz, he has a good article showing the value of two articles, different theories, whether it was a lab accident or not, but then he gives a third interpretation that everyone seems to be carefully avoiding, which is the long-established germ warfare of policies of the United States and goes through the facts that align so much more perfectly with this third option than with just the lab accident or not theories There's another article on the site the recent one on his site, which says that Basically, it was a failed bioweapon attack on China launched by the United States And when the Chinese didn't take the bait then basically the US said well We have an opportunity to use it on somebody else who would that be? Well our population and the rest of the world and we're gonna use this to tighten control for whatever other reason we have Iran really was the second target. Just the elite politicians in Iran had a very terrible attack right after China. I think one misapprehension of the germ warfare people, they really seem to have believed that the ACE2 enzyme they thought it was the receptor that let the virus attack and enter cells. I think they really believed that. And the fact that the Chinese have about 30 percent higher expression of the ACE2 enzyme, especially in women. Women have a higher expression than men. And in both sexes, the expression of ACE2 decreases with aging, but I think the fact that the Chinese have such a thick expression of this ACE2 anti-anthrotensin. I think that led people to believe that the Chinese would suffer much more intensely from this virus than Americans or other racial groups. But in fact, the ACE2 is what defends us against inflammatory attacks such as virus. That's interesting. So the populations that express the most ACE2 rather than being the most susceptible to catching the virus, they're the ones with the most powerful means for resisting the inflammatory consequences. So women, young women, are the most resistant, but it happens that the Chinese... heredity gives them an especially high igh resistance. I'm not saying it wasn't produced in a lab, but isn't the idea that it's a bioweapon kind of conflict with the idea that it's not harmful at all? I mean, the activation of the renin-angiotensin system, but that all of this stuff is just way overboard and just about control? You know, Rana Unce talks about that, that it wasn't intended. To kill many people and didn't really kill lots of people, but it was a nuisance just just like an effective cold virus. But the theory was that it would give Chinese 30% more colds than it would give Americans. Oh, interesting. And, and, um, may, for this whole thing to work, would they really had to have created something? You know, like there's that, I don't buy into it, but the alt-narrative that like there's nothing. You know what I mean? And a lot, actually a lot of major, I think, didn't Patrick Timpone, he keeps listing people saying that there is no virus, you know? And so, but, but isn't the whole thing now that, what's that word they say for making viruses? It's in the news all the time now. Do you know what I'm talking about? The Fauci keeps saying it. Like they'll enhance a virus or whatever. Oh, gain of function. Yeah, gain of function. But anyways, you're saying they had to have created something, right? Yeah. Luke Montagnier has clearly expressed that he, in his lab work, understands how you create a gain of function. You find some species difference, like the human expression of the ACE2 enzyme. It was chosen as a target and so they just adjusted the enzyme to be able to stick more firmly to that enzyme. The people arguing against the whole existence of viruses are in a way under something because... the mechanism by which we maintain our genetic and physiological interactions among the various parts of our body. The circulatory systems are carrying exosomes in which our cells put out genetic messages that are sent to other cells. But this apparatus is... the same one that the viruses use to replicate the viral message. And in size and structure, exosomes are in most ways indistinguishable from the things that are classified as viruses. And so if you give a vaccine or catch a virus......and get the nucleic acids into some of your cells, those cells experiencing distress will increase their production of exosomes which pick up relevant bits of nucleic acid and proteins and lipids and package them in a little virus-like package, which those exosomes then travel to different parts of the body......and are excreted in sweat, in the breath, in the urine, and so on. And so we are creating things that function like viruses and look like viruses and are made in the same system in the cell that replicate viruses. So I think the people that didn't deny that there is such a thing as a virus are really just helping to call attention to the probable origin of all viruses was the mixture of external transmitted nucleic acids basically. Transmitted, excreted and transmitted in the form of exosomes as a natural physiological adaptive process. Aren't the mRNA vaccines essentially an artificial replication of that whole exosome paradigm but in a really harmful manner? Yeah. I don't know how or where the virus people were of exosomes, but... That's something that is completely left out of most of the discussion, that in fact the vaccine nucleic acid, the messenger RNA, can be packaged into exosomes and transmitted to other cells, including our germ cells, and into our sweat and transmitted to people we touch or breathe on. A couple more things on Montagnier. He said as early as March 2020 that the virus is most certainly man-made after having studied it for a couple of months, and he basically said this virus contains sequences that are not known to occur in any natural virus of the same category of the coronavirus, including a protein sequence that is known to be part of the HIV virus. And then, of course, immediately French press started publishing articles saying he must have run out of his anti-psychotic medication. What about his other message from the same interview, which he said that having a vaccination campaign during a pandemic is absolutely the dumbest thing a public health agency can do because it's actually causing the virus to mutate. In order to avoid the vaccine and evolve and that's what's creating the new quote-unquote variants and in fact it's making people more susceptible to dying from these new variants due to the antibody dependent enhancement process. Yeah, that's the sort of thing he says that they want to shut up. Do you think there's any truth to that basically that people are these people are now more susceptible to. dying from like future encountering either another coronavirus or any virus really because you said something similar about the flu vaccines that some of the deaths from coronavirus was because I was following flu vaccination campaigns. Yeah several studies have shown that people who were vaccinated for influenza the following season were much much more likely to catch a coronavirus so you become partially immune to influenza instead you substitute increased susceptibility to coronavirus infection so the whole thing all of the facts invalidate the claims both about influenza vaccines and the COVID. So which one do you think is a bigger worry for a vaccinated person the chronic inflammatory disease. state which these vaccines will probably trigger and keep for a long time potentially for life and even transgenerational or the the potential for ADE when this person encounters another virus later on in their life. The risk of exaggerated antibody intensification of symptoms the risk is so great that even though we don't know how often it's going to happen it's just a very crazy risk to take for the world population. So these people could you know die 10 years from now when they encounter a completely different virus and of course you'll never be tied back to the vaccine they got 10 years ago. Yeah. I wanted to get your thoughts on the Israel-Palestine stuff, but one question I have for you about that is why, and maybe this is wrong, but why doesn't Israel give the Palestinians vaccines? Or is it some kind of reverse psychology thing that they're withholding vaccines from them? I think part of the truth is probably that, like American black people, often look at the history of what the CDC has done, experimenting on black people, experimenting in other countries, doing experiments in the guise of vaccine, where really they're doing something else. And I think a lot of Palestinians are... likewise fearful of being experimented on by the vaccinators. So that would just be a no-sell immediately, like if Israel's like, we have vaccines for Palestinians, they would never accept those? If I was a Palestinian, I don't think I would. No, I mean, there's actually documented cases around the world in, I think in Afghanistan and Pakistan, they kicked out representatives of war health organization because now they're firmly convinced that the vaccines that they're getting as donations from Western countries are intended to sterilize the population. And we have now some evidence that same thing is happening in Africa. So I don't think it's just the Palestinians that are mistrustful. It's kind of like a third world being always suspicious of the rich people and their attempts to provide benefits to the to the poor plebs they will never take that uh you know openly right i kind of understand why the elites here would want to depopulate the u.s but why would they want to do that in israel oh well they're set on getting rid of the palestinians but why would the why would the uh why would israel vaccinate its own citizens if the higher-ups assuming that they understand that this vaccine is to harm people i'm not sure what they understand so net nyahu doesn't think it's you it's it's possible that he doesn't know it's for depopulation i think that's possible in other words the elite may be sometimes stupid and not know that what they have unleashed on themselves is is that what i'm hearing yeah the elite isn't unified they're on a world scale they're unified in the sense of being a ruling class with its own interest but within that power system there are constant subdivisions of power conflicts uh... and uh... so uh... you have to look at each country's power elite and how it relates to the others. So like Maxwell doesn't care about some Israeli citizen that uh... I don't know, shines shoes or something just as much as a Rockefeller doesn't care about an American, kind of the same type of thing? Uh... yeah. The uh... the European Jews have a very uh... race-like... uh... discrimination against the uh... uh... uh... Jews of other origins, especially African originating Jews. Thank you. I hadn't heard much about what's going on. Well, he was framed as a womanizer, and then Melinda and him got a divorce, and now the media is all over him as a bad person. That has been coming out gradually ever since Epstein killed himself, supposedly. The story was evolving. Bill Clinton and lots of the elite political crowd, and he was in it right from an early stage. It just takes time to develop. I know that, but do you think he was impeding their goals? He has such a bad reputation now that they're like, we need to do something to get this guy off the air or something like that? I know I'm asking you to speculate but it just seems so odd that they turn on like that built that Epstein stuff has been around for a very long time and then the media just automatically picks up on it now Like it doesn't doesn't make any sense They they are confused by things leaking out that shouldn't have and I think They are in the process of reorganizing them and trying to find a new equilibrium that can be sustained, but everything does seem to be falling apart. going to mainstream media anymore? I mean, an increasingly smaller percentage of people are reading it, which means less ad revenue and unless the government starts to pay the media directly to subsidize them, they don't really have a survival plan. Yeah, I think those forces are really stirring up confusion in the mass media on different sides. Okay, absolute last thing and then I'll read the super chats. Ray, I feel like the olive oil on the carrot or mushrooms is like a revelation. Like I think it works so much better than coconut oil and so I just want I think my digestion is the best it's ever been and the only thing that I can think of that I changed was the olive oil. Is that, does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, I know the same thing. Our allergenic properties in coconut that even extreme refining can miss, but olive oil in the unrefined state, it's a fruit oil, not a seed oil. And as such, it brings with the oil a lot of anti-inflammatory, very protective intestinal. Redesigning and protecting drug effects. One last food question for me, because since you brought up the food thing. Ray, I noticed you've commented in the past on orange peel as being very high in things like naringenin, hisperidine, etc. What are your thoughts on orange peel wax, which is available as basically food grade material, and it's got this really dark... red, almost brownish color, which makes me think it's very very high. It's a concentrated form, basically, dietary form of all these flavonoids. What was it called? Orange peel wax. It consists of about 50 to 60 percent of polycosinols, basically, but its color is very dark red, almost like a brick, which makes me think it's high in these flavonoids that we know have protective effects. It sounds good. I'll find out more about it. But meanwhile, marmalade tastes very good and has those same things. So does the pulp need to be removed? Is it only basically a thin scraping of the peel? Is that what's the beneficial part? Pretty much the whole thing, the white stuff as well as the orange stuff has those flavonoids. Okay. Okay. So here are the donations. My computer doesn't stall. Okay. Peggy for $10. Thank you so much, Peggy. Gene Pack for $20. Thank you so much, Gene. Plue Plus for 50 SAR. I don't know what that is. David Hendricks for $20. Thank you so much. Janet Pack for $20. Thank you so much, Janet. Piorador. I won't even try your last name. 199. Thank you so much, Piorador. Linda Bell for $5. Thank you so much. And Pure Therapy for $4.99. Thank you so much, Pure Therapy. And then there's one last one, I think, from Michelle for $50. Well, okay, I will send all of those to Ray. Let me do one more advertisement for right here. The newsletter is available by email now. It's $28. You can send it to raypeatsnewsletter at gmail.com. And then you can purchase progesterone progesterone from Keenogen by emailing Katherine Keenogen at gmail.com and each bottle contains 3,400 milligrams of progesterone. Okay, that is the last thing. Ray, any parting words? Nope. And Georgi, any parting words? Not really. I mean, I'm glad that the narrative is falling apart and hopefully the elite will consume itself and not force us to take matters into our own hands. Cool. Okay, Ray, stay on the line. We'll just keep you for one minute extra. Guys, thank you so much. Give this episode a like, share it online, etc. We have an amazing listenership, sincerely appreciate it. These are always extremely fun to do. Sincere thanks to Ray, sincere thanks to Georgie for making these possible, and our amazing audience for also making it possible. Thanks everybody, take care, have a good weekend, talk to you guys soon. Bye everyone. Thanks everybody, take care, have a good weekend. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. Thanks everybody, take care. I'll see you next time.................