 You You You............................. Okay, okay, and we're live. Georgie Dikov, Ray Peet. Guys, thank you so much for joining us today. Thank you, Georgie. Thank you, Ray. And we're just going to rifle through a bunch of questions, but before we do that, how are you, Ray? Very good. Yeah. You said the weather had gotten a little bit sunnier in Eugene, so that's always a positive. It's going to be in the hundreds, over a hundred this weekend. And then how do you, do you go sit in the sun or what do you do? No, I'm going to stay inside all day tomorrow at least. We open the door at about 1 a.m. when it cools off, blow in some cooler air, and then close it up for the day. The house is concrete so it holds its temperature for about a day. And blocking that 5G as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah, a little bit. Okay, and then Georgi, how are you, sir? I really liked your elevated music that you put at the start of the show. It was very soothing. Did you hear it through my headphones? No, I heard the music. Was I not supposed to hear it? Oh no, you weren't. Okay, that's a little bit weird. Right? Did you hear the music too? Yeah. Oh, okay, weird. I thought it was kind of interesting. You tried to hold a conversation over like this really loud music and I thought, wow, that must be a new feature. That's one of the reasons we're upgrading equipment because when I'm talking to you guys before the show, I'm always hearing music and it's like obnoxious. So, okay, enough of that. This show, like I said, told you guys before, I don't feel like it's for me or necessarily per se, Georgie, although Ray and Georgie, you guys is interfacing and bouncing ideas off each other is I think what the people are here to listen to. Okay, so I'm just going to go through these questions and read them. And Ray, some of this stuff is going to be redundant and answer as much or as little as you want for all of this. So our first one is from Drew F. and he says Trestosterone slash M-E-N-T is not five alpha reduced, but bodybuilders and some. Post finasteride sufferers experience benefits in terms of mood, anabolism, etc. Is androgen receptor agonism a likely explanation for the effects? It is a much stronger androgen than testosterone. Which reduced testosterone is it? Georgi, do you know what this is? Yes, I know. It's a new steroid. It's seven alpha modulated version of nandrolone. Which is a carbon 18 steroid of the strain family so it was always suspicious when they add methyl group yeah it's actually very hepatotoxic as you know ray methyl groups at position 17 7 and potentially others they're they've all been proven to have severe hepatotoxicity but bodybuilders like it because I guess they don't value their liver that much but also it's the steroid that can achieve the same with lower doses and they think it's worth it instead of abusing the testosterone in higher dosages. That steroid was developed as a male contraceptive candidate and I think it's still in clinical trials for that but even the company that developed it and is running the clinical trials got discouraged given the hepatotoxicity. Ray, do you want to clarify the methyl group? So adding a methyl group to a steroid is risky, you said? Yeah, it just sends it off on unknown pathways. The liver never had to deal with such things, and so I think it's extremely unpredictable and dangerous. Good stuff. And then we've talked about post-finasteride a bunch, so I don't want to... kind of get into that again. I kind of want to like... I think his main question was our androgen receptor, is activation of the androgen receptor a plausible explanation of the antidepressant and general like well-being, feelings of well-being from using these androgenic steroids? I think it's plausible. Great stuff. Thank you for that, guys. OK, Marcelo, this is just kind of a statement. Thank you, Danny, for your contributions to the community. You are a big reason why Ray's work, wealth of knowledge is available to us. Thank you so much, Georgie, for his continuing curiosity and dedicating his life's work towards advancements in this space. Hope this helps. Thank you, Marcelo. Sincerely appreciate that. Thank you to Ray for being humble inspiration for all things. Andrew Wallace says, what would you do if you had crones? What would be your protocol? Thank you. Ray, I always assume, I guess I'm just asking you and then Georgie can chime in at any point. Pretty much what I do anyway, assume the intestine is my contact with the world and I have to protect it and so I don't want to offend it in any way. And Crohn's disease is a seriously offended intestine. And from what I've read, you know, it seems like you've dealt with a lot of like serious intestinal things over the years as one would in this environment. And so it's not like you're speaking from reading. I know you read obviously a lot, but you're speaking from personal experience. Is that right? Yeah, starting as a baby it was migraines which recurred. Every time I would do certain things wrong, up until my mid-40s, I would still, the last one, for example, was when I was visiting in San Francisco and didn't realize that they had fluoridated water and I would occasionally drink some of that water and I was taking Xenoplus or Xenomel. Orally, and within two or three days I had a tremendous migraine and that started me thinking about it and fluoride can totally wipe out the activity of T3 if it happens to be present in your stomach and the T3 is exposed to it. I have a question in regards to Crohn's disease. Harry, have you seen some of the more recent studies claiming that Crohn's disease may be caused by a type of mycobacteria, which is known to cause Crohn's disease in animals, and now they're saying the same thing may be true in humans. Yeah, but the inflammation and poor digestion are set up to conditions. For such things to accumulate and multiply. You can find a mycoplasm in just about any sick person. It's sort of opportunistic and looks for a sort of place to live. So, maybe this antibiotic therapy that they're now trying in Europe for this, potentially, the treating is a bacterial infection, but it's really destroying the microbiome and keeping the intestine sterile, which reduces the inflammation. Not necessarily, it's not only one bacteria, it's just this is helping because it's reducing the amount of bacteria in the intestine anyways. Yeah, just taking a series of penicillin doses. Or eating raw carrots, for example, can have very similar effects and in both rats and people, it turns out that anything that cleans up your intestine will lower your cortisol and estrogen and increase your progesterone, just because the intestine is such a chronic drain and source of stress. In regards to the carrot salad and in general fiber, what are your thoughts on supplementing with pure cellulose if one could find a pure source? It would be interesting. They used to sell basically a cellulose tablet for weight loss. I never tried one, but it seemed like a good idea because cellulose doesn't have the estrogen promoting symptoms. A lot of other fibers to. Yeah the reason i mentioned is i was reading some studies they're using various cellulose esters is a binders for drugs for developing pharmaceutical drugs and some of these esters like for example ethyl cellulose showed remarkable antibacterial effects in animals and reduced inflammation so i thought maybe it's because it's clearing out their intestines somehow. Oh yeah it was very popular. In fact, as well as weight loss. But was this in the past, like in the maybe 60s or 70s? I used to see the ads for it on TV as recently as 1986. I think it was. Interesting, very interesting. Speaking of cortisol. Okay, this one's from new health and they say good, good cortisol blocker supplements for weight loss. What is your thoughts on that ring? What blocker? Like a cortisol blocker. Progesterone and Pregnenolone are the best ones I know of. But working at the pituitary level, a lot of things, sugar, aspirin, probably sodium, anything that stabilizes your blood sugar and metabolism, reduces inflammation, will... defend you against cortisol. supplement routine? Not my goal. Ed, do you want to comment on Morley-Robbins? Do you know who that is? Are you familiar with their work? No, no. Okay. I have a question. So if somebody has a low seruloplasmin, some of the studies claim that this is a sign of low thyroid function. In a situation like that, considering that seruloplasmin... apparently takes care of the copper and makes sure it doesn't become toxic to the various organs, would somebody be potentially at risk if they have low seruloplasmin and low thyroid? Would they be at risk when eating high copper foods like liver and shellfish? I think so. Did you ever read Carl Pfeiffer's books? I think he caused himself to lose pigment by being so obsessive about keeping copper down. But he was very concentrated on the risk of too much copper, probably having seen some people with a seruloplasm deficiency. Yeah, and Louise Gittleman, Andy Cutler, and Carl Pfeiffer, they were all about copper. Copper toxicity being this, like, humongous problem, and it seems like from reading your work that they were just misled in what they thought was going on. Yeah, he took a little capsule of flowers of sulfur every day for many, many years, and he had no trace of skin or hair pigment left. Okay, great stuff. Okay, this one's from Joseph, and he says, can you speak about nitric oxide and the word on the street that it's good for... for Cialis or Viagra, so that it works like those substances? I'm afraid there is quite a bit of overlap, and the initial, as soon as nitric oxide was discovered to be produced in the body, they were seeing its involvement in everything degenerative and harmful. So, then, when... the Viagra came on the market, suddenly, for about five or six years, everything published was how great nitric oxide is that prevents hypertension and protective against everything. Thousands of articles came out suddenly reversing it from a dangerous free radical to a cure-all. And then, about ten or fifteen years ago, there was a gradual... return to sanity and realizing that it's one of very central things to degeneration, aging, the follow-up of trauma, estrogen interactions. Everything stress-related and degeneration-related involves the pro-inflammatory effect of ethanol. Two follow-up questions. He says, is aspirin safe to take every day and also is lactose-free milk good? It doesn't taste very good, but I think it's safe enough. It doesn't let you absorb nutrients quite as well as natural lactose-containing milk, but I don't think it's harmful. And then your thoughts on using aspirin every day? Yes, when I had a good supply, I was taking it every day very consistently, but sometimes I forget to take it when it isn't in a convenient form, like some of it is powdered so fine it's choking when you try to take it just on your tongue. George, you interrupt me at any time. Okay, this one's a little bit long, so bear with me for a second. I've been trying to have a baby for more than a year, but I have azuspermia. Confirmed after 3 semen analyses and undetectable levels of sperm after a testicular ultrasound, they found a small varicocele in both testicles. I've been taking 7-8 mg of extremistane for 3 weeks. For how much longer is it safe to take? Will continued extremistane use help me fix the varicocele? What's she taking? Extremistane, it's a steroidal aromatase inhibitor. I'll just finish up this question, it's like there's two more sentences here, and we can go through it. If extremistane doesn't fix the azospermia, what else can I do? I'd like to avoid having a varicocelectomy, or even worse, surgical sperm extraction from IVF. After three weeks of extremistane, my total testosterone went from 400 to 756. Extremistane has also increased my FSH and LH and are now above standard range. I thought FSH and LH would go down as testosterone goes up. So were there bits of that question that you have comments on, Rick? Yeah, I think you can get a safer inhibition of aromatase using aspirin, progesterone, are completely safe things. Thyroid is very important, but just with aspirin, progesterone, and thyroid, you can get your ratio back, testosterone, pregnenolone, up, and estrogen down, and supplementing pregnenolone and thyroxine, historically, was very effective. Correcting infertility and enlivening inactive sperms. And so the ASU-spermia, if the cholesterol was high and the person wasn't taking enough thyroid, that would be a result of that with high estrogen? Yeah, the thyroid and pregnenolone make their energy producing system revive. Great stuff, thanks for that. Okay, Peggy says, question for the Q&A, thoughts on ivermectin for COVID prophylaxis and any alternative as it is almost impossible to get a prescription for it. Thank you. Prophylaxis suggests you would be taking some every day for an indefinite time until you didn't get the infection. The normal use of it is a very short course and about one person in the thousands in the studies of using it to treat parasites will show signs of brain damage. I don't think it's a good idea to take maybe thousands of daily doses even of a moderate amount of something. once in a while is known to cause brain damage. Of course, there's no medical advice, but that's what the study said. Instead of hydroxychloroquine, you can try plain old quinine. My personal favorite, hydroxychloroquine is just the patented more liver toxic version of quinine. Neuroengineering, also a few good studies. So drinking orange juice should have similar effect than taking the isolated version. And aspirin, vitamin C and vitamin D. I mean, all of these of these now have quite a few studies behind them, unfortunately everything is being censored by mainstream media so you have to go to PubMed to find them but I wouldn't say Ivermectin would be one of the last things I would try considering all the other safer alternatives that are out there. Cyproheptadiene, famotidiene which is an acid blocker but apparently is also potent anti-serotonin agent as well. Really I don't know where the Ivermectin craze is coming from, maybe that's the only thing that hit the mainstream news, but uh... uh... tons of other chemicals safer and cheaper and available over-the-counter that can do just as well if not better than ivermectin with fewer side effects. And vitamin D is very effective. There was a study done in Spain in a hospital which was withdrawn after a lot of doctors wrote ignorant letters to the publisher and for some reason the editor caved in and had it withdrawn, but it was very clear that they gave, I think it was 6,000 units, something like that per day. It was 8,000 first dose and then 6,000 units a day to people who were admitted. to hospital intensive care, very sick with COVID and simply that treatment with vitamin D reduced mortality by about, I think it was 60%, just an absolutely clear difference. But the readers who didn't like vitamin D quibbled that they hadn't done enough. Statistics quite right, but you can't miss a 60% disappearance of dead patients. I would like to see a doctor argue that 60% more live people is statistically insignificant. Very stupid people were complaining. Shout out to the Kate Dearing and Kitty Blomfield podcast you did with them. I thought it was like a tour de force. And you at least, I thought you cleared up every single anti vitamin D argument that exists on the internet right now and so I was very thankful for that podcast and I think you can type in Kitty Blomfield a win at life podcast vitamin D repeat and a person can find it instantaneously. Okay. Okay. Hi, Danny. Hi, Georgie. Hi, repeat. Many thanks for the show. Keep, please keep going. I have one question my seven year old daughter has hypothyroid symptoms low energy weight gain digestive problems her TSH is between four and five. And her free free T four is around 12 doctors here don't test for other markers. Unfortunately, doctor says everything is okay, and no need to worry. Do you have any suggestions what what we can do, preferably nutrition, nutritional plus lifestyle. Thanks again, Tim Oh, please PS I'm lucky. If you take my question. Okay, what do you what do you think about that? Very important to get to TSH down. The TSH at that level itself is causing symptoms, pro-inflammatory symptoms, and it's going to disturb her puberty development, all kinds of development. The history of that bizarre attitude towards TSH, I don't know if you've heard of it, but I think it's on my website, 50 Years of Fraud, this part of the title, that there's just no scientific basis for relying on TSH, especially at such very high levels as ________. And, you know, just my limited understanding of things of reading through hypothyroidism to unsuspected illness, like, he, Rhoda talks about childhood hypothyroidism, and it's not crazy to investigate a thyroid supplement for a child, right? Oh, not at all. Sometimes it has to start at a very young age, but it's increasingly important around seven or eight or nine when ________. The first signs of puberty are coming on because the estrogen is going to slow down the thyroid function. Great stuff. Okay. This one's from JV Marketing. They say, hi guys. I recently started taking thyroid 12.5 micrograms of T3 and 37.5 micrograms of T4. I am day three into this and my waking temperature has been slightly lower than usual. Is it normal for a slight dip in temperature before improvements are made? Could this be a nutritional deficiency? Yes, very low thyroid people will have, especially during the night, high cortisol and adrenaline usually. You should check your pulse at the same time when you wake up, along with the temperature. And then after having breakfast with, for example, a lot of orange juice, the stress hormones are going to. Be decreased when you get your glucose level up so the adrenaline goes down the cortisol will go down both of those have kept your temperature kept up by the both of them and pulse rate kept up by high adrenaline during the night and so by which of those changes the most you can tell. What might night stress was responsible for them and when you get your thyroid gradually improving your carbon dioxide production and stabilizing your glycogen stores and your nocturnal stress goes down and so you're revealing the hypothyroid condition that was hidden under the stress hormones. During daytime testing, people who were very hypothyroid, such as a 5 or 6 on the TSH level, have been very hyper and normal-seeming, not fat or edematous or sluggish or anything. But they were found to have 30 to 40 times the daily output of adrenaline making up for the low thyroid production. So it's pretty common to have extreme slowdown when you start on your thyroid. That's why it's so important to keep a chart marked off. For at least two or three weeks, showing your temperature and pulse rate both on the same chart so that you can draw a line where it should, with an ideal starting dose of thyroid, you should see the lines rising steadily towards the goal of pulse rate and temperature at the end of two or three weeks. But if at first you see the numbers going down, that's the evidence that you're getting out of the stress. are getting colds and flus right now. There seems to be a lot of discussion in my neighborhood that people are out sick at work and feeling flu-slash-cold symptoms, even though it's extremely warm here. The purpose of any vaccine is to create a systemic inflammation, and in general, that weakens your overall immune system. Even though it pumps up your specific antibodies, the general inflammation is a weakness, at least during the time you're having symptoms, and unfortunately, sometimes for a much longer time, such as the year after people had an influenza vaccination, their rate of... Coronavirus infection was greatly increased, 50 or 60% more likely to get infected by a different virus because they were protected against influenza virus. So the idea, the officials actually say stupid things like, get vaccinated, it'll make you healthy. Thanks for that. And we'll take like a break here, Ray, like, I don't know, like maybe 20 minutes or so, because I know this, I don't give you like a lobotomy from this asking you a hundred questions. But I know a question about the vaccines. Is there any truth to saying that basically they're the vaccines are sacrificing general immunity, you know, in order to boost specific resistance to a very specific virus while at the same time making you vulnerable, just as you mentioned. They also mentioned influenza and corona, but I think this applies to any virus, right? If you shift the immune response, protecting from only one virus, you're exposing yourself, becoming more compromisable to all the other viruses. Yeah, there were, I think, 10 studies showing that with influenza follow up, but the whole doctrine, going back to Ehrlich's time, it's a drug-industry-centered virus. The theory of what immunity amounts to, Paul Ehrlich was selling his patent drugs and he shared the Nobel Prize with Metzhnikov, who was an embryologist, who saw immunity as the whole organism maintaining itself, a total......inclusive concept of what immunity or resistance is, where Ehrlich proposed a theory that was ideal for selling magic bullet drugs. The concept of magic bullet was converted to the antibody theory of immunity that your B-cells produced a specific... immunity. So logically if you don't have a specific drug for every conceivable disease then you're going to need a vaccine for every existing or possible disease, because the antibody theory of immunity is really just a... a silver bullet, one drug to sell for one disease. 25 milligrams of masteron. I know these aren't hepatoxic, but would you dissolve these in tocopherol and take sublingually before swallowing for maximal effect? P.S. your thoughts on low-dose, trend-blown base? Even with natural testosterone, I think people are generally getting overdosed. It's a very healthy... A very young man might produce four or five milligrams of testosterone per day. And so one or two milligrams, well assimilated, should give you a tremendous boost of virility and muscle strength. And with DHEA, the teenage production is 12 to 15 milligrams. It goes steadily down with aging, similar to testosterone, but by the time a person is 30 or 40, 5 milligrams will still bring them up to a normal level of DHEA. And the other is that the overdose is. Apparently, the desired state. I have a question about the amounts of steroids. Yes, a younger, a young viral man will produce 45 milligrams of testosterone, but they also clear estrogen much more effectively than an older person. So their testosterone to estrogen ratio or testosterone to cortisol ratio is pretty high. An older person basically tends to be overloaded with both estrogen and cortisol. while having their testosterone levels drop. So the four to five milligrams, yes, they will potentially bring up the testosterone levels up to the levels of a young virile man, but they won't necessarily fix the issue with the high estrogen and high cortisol. So that person may not be necessarily feeling the same, you know, anabolic or mood boosting or whatnot effects that a younger person would get from such a dosage simply because their stress hormones are too high. And I think that may be why older people and bodybuilders in general, they're overdosing these steroids, simply because they're not addressing the thyroid angle, and they're trying to shut down their stress hormones by simply over flooding them and overcrowding them with these androgens. That may be one reason why they're using such high doses. For several reasons, a thyroid is our basic anabolic hormone. It directly activates protein synthesis, lowers cortisol and the breakdown of protein, and inhibits the effect of cortisol and inflammatory things on aromatase. So it's an aromatase and cortisol antagonist. So basically an thyroid. An anabolic approach with steroids should always take into account thyroid, right? Or at least some other option of blocking cortisol in a safe manner. Yeah, as the basic anabolic substance, the muscles, if they're under stress or idle, and forced idleness will cause the muscle to actually produce and secrete cortisol and estrogen. And when they're properly activated with thyroid and activity, they will be a source of testosterone and a sink for cortisol. Okay, great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, so this one's from Craig. He says, Craig Doe, I've been diagnosed with severe sleep apnea induced by arterial fibrillation. I'm on meds that make me feel terrible. Tried cardioversion didn't work. I'm 53 fit. Use a CPAP. Any ideas how to get off meds? Thank you. People who are using that CPAP are almost always hypothyroid and low in progesterone. For many years, they've been curing sleep apnea with procyroid things and progesterone. Progesterone lowers the stress hormones, improves the depth of sleep, and maintains regular breathing and prevents hyperventilation. That's what progesterone does. The real problem in sleep apnea is cyclic hyperventilation followed by cessation. When you go deficient in carbon dioxide, your breathing stops and you could even die from respiratory arrest if you are producing so little carbon dioxide. So, thyroid and progesterone directly correct the problem. Acetazolamide has been used, I think, for 50 or 60 years to treat sleep apnea, and it indirectly raises your carbon dioxide level and keeps stimulating your breathing through the night. I have something to add. Most drugs on the market currently for AFib, which is the common name for atrial fibrillation, are blood thinners and the flagship drugs known as Xarelto was approved by the FDA with the FDA's knowledge that the clinical trials conducted in Mexico and other Latin American countries were 100% fraudulent. There's a famous article by the Slate magazine which came out in I think it was 2016 or 17 where they did an expose of how FDA knew that the trials were fraudulent not simply deficient but fraudulent data was made up to to support the approval of the drug and and when uh Slate and other journalists tried to contact um FDA basically FDA refused to comment on it and threatened the journalists that they will sue them and impose a gag order if they continue walking around and talking how Zorelto is a dangerous potentially a murderous drug so I would try to get off that drug because there are many other safer blood thinners a subsequent trial it was done outside of the United States I forgot where but it compared aspirin to Xarelto and found aspirin to be more effective and safer so I think Xarelto may be causing a lot of these problems especially with the lowering of carbon dioxide it's really not a safe drug. Wait you're saying the pharmaceutical companies are corrupt? Georgie? I'm saying the FDA is corrupt. Okay I had never heard that before. Okay um that is wild. Okay thank you for that Georgie. Thank you Ray. Um where is I? Okay okay this was Muhammad and he says question for Dr. Ray Pete. My mom is borderline diabetic, removes thyroid and has pain in her feet that borders uh that bothers her a lot. What can she do to treat this? What was her thyroid condition? The doctors likely prescribe thyroxine, and in women, thyroxine fails to be activated properly because of estrogen interfering with liver function, which should account for about two thirds of your active thyroid function. For most women, thyroxine fails to be activated thyroxine being what doctors like to prescribe just isn't correcting the problem and so getting on real thyroid supplement is essential when you've had the gland removed. And maybe you feel confident in armor in the US right now? I haven't tried any armor in recent years, but I haven't heard any. I knew bad things about it for several years, they were going back and forth failing FDA tests and so on, but for several years now, I haven't heard bad things about it, so it's the only glandular right now that I would trust, but during the time that armor was being reformulated in the early 90s, I shifted to the synthetics. First, thyrolar formulated by armor to exactly imitate natural armor thyroid, and then Xenoplus, which exactly imitated the thyrolar formula and made by the same company that makes Xenomal or pure T3, and so those have been very reliable now for... at least 30 years. Maybe maybe we'll take it like a quick break here right and maybe we can talk about progesterone for just a millisecond so 3,400 milligrams of progesterone per bottle dissolves in vitamin E. You can email kinogen at gmail.com aka Katherine and you can She'll ship it extremely fast. She just shipped me 12 bottles of it and sitting in my refrigerator right now and Ray Do you want to dip into your gigantic bag of? Positive progesterone stories and and say anything about it. Oh, no, nothing occurs to me right now. Okay, one thing you said on the vitamin D with Kate Dearing and Kitty was you didn't really think of it like a hormone. It's just this like generalized stabilizing factor in cells. And so I think you said that before, but that that resonated when you talked about it, then that. The brain is a major source and goal of progesterone, and men have just as much in their brain or should as women, and it's involved in the cell division process all the way up to nerve and muscle function, every conceivable. Everything in higher animals depends on progesterone. I've heard you mention milk and fruit as the cosmic diet and wonder if there is an ethical component to how you view and structure your nutrition. Thanks to the three of you. Yeah, it has to do with cosmic entropy actually. That's why the whole energy concept of existence. It involves the stabilization process in all animate beings and you can trace those processes of increasing consciousness and brain development through the physics of the universe. It all has to do with... creating order, maintaining order, and it happens that milk and fruits are the simplest and most order-preserving way to integrate your life with the cosmos. I love it. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay, this one's from Umar, and they say, Does a benign tumor have a similar metabolism to a cancerous one? I have had a benign osteochondrodroma on my upper femur since childhood. What ways slash supplementing can help in removing it? Thank you all. If it's quiescent, not inflamed or growing. No, it doesn't have the cancer metabolism. It's just a structural defect, but any inflammation according to the degree of the inflammation is going to start having the cancer metabolism. Great stuff. Thanks, Georgi. I wanted to mention rubbing progesterone on it, since it's simply a fibrotic structure, may help a lot. There are some older studies. that seem to have stopped around the 70s that kept calling progesterone the most potent anti-fibiotic chemical known to men and they suddenly stopped. I guess the pharmaceutical industry got involved but they had success in animal studies by applying progesterone topically or subcutaneously and managing to dissolve multiple metastases of much worse and malignant tumors. I don't see a reason why it couldn't be applied in this case as well. Yeah, the anti-fibrotic effect, I've seen examples of hundreds of times. I think the reason they stopped talking about that effect is that the mechanism involves interfering with estrogen's pro-fibrotic effect, activating nitric oxides and serotonin, that group of things, estrogen, nitric oxide, and serotonin, are all blocked by progesterone, and those are the pro-degenerative, pro-fibrotic substances. Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. This one's from James. He says, hi guys, I've had man boobs for years, which recently developed into gynecomastia, but only on my left breast. Is there a way to reverse this? Thank you. Thank you. Just today, I got an email saying that his chest fat and anechomastia regressed thoroughly from taking quite a bit of progesterone, but I think it's essential to use vitamin D and thyroid and all of the anti-aromatase substances, including some aspirin. To keep it under control. Amazing, great stuff. This one's from another James. They say, when approximately did the United States transform from a constitutional republic into an empire, or was the USA always set up to be one from the beginning? Well, the spreading from the colonies across the continent, taking Western United States away from Britain. From Mexico and then following that up with war against Spain to take the Philippines and Cuba, the imperial mentality goes back right almost to the beginning. But the 20th century has been... standing imperialism with the banana republics being kept in line with sending battleships every year or so, they would threaten another country in the hemisphere. And there was a temporary let up with FDR's good neighbor policy. We're as good as we are at some point. It has just grown in its intensity, starting right at FDR's death. Policies were absolutely 180 degrees reversed where he had planned a post-war anti-imperialist policy. He had a conference with Wendell Willkie. They agreed that whichever party won after his term was up would follow the decolonization of the American anti-imperialist party. World policy, but it happens that Wilkie got a cold and died at a very young age and then just before Roosevelt could find out that Alan Dulles was committing treason and lying himself with the German intelligence, Galen system, to take over the world. Roosevelt died just before he could learn that fact, and so immediately with his death, the Dulles faction took over with a single-minded imperialism that had been followed steadily. Great stuff, thanks for that. I'm getting told that the audio is a little bit wonky, but I guess we're just gonna have to keep going here. I don't know what's wrong. This is why we're trying to buy new equipment. Okay, where was I here? Okay, Nick says, hey guys, say a guy lost the ability to ejaculate and then also slowly over a period of a couple of years was also basically unable to get an erection. What things would be the most important to look into? Having blood tests would be very useful to see what your cortisol and estrogen, DHEA, progesterone and thyroid and testosterone are doing. Yeah, I want to add to that that sometimes doctors will just test the testosterone, but several large human studies show that you can have erectile dysfunction and ejaculatory problems and fertility problems. Even in men with normal levels of testosterone and DHA, as long as either prolactin or estradiol are either elevated or in the top 25th percentile of the quote-unquote normal range, which we know it's not really normal. Great stuff, guys. Thank you. Okay, this one's another from Nick, and he says, my heart rate. Okay, so this might clarify the last question. He says, my heart rate is in the low 50s while sitting, but while standing and also resting, it's in the 80s. Should the sitting be close to the 80s causes? I think it should be higher than that unless there's some reason. If you have a really big heart, it can pump a lot of blood with a pulse as slow as 50, but ordinarily you aren't pumping enough blood to keep things going. And very good health if it's running that slow. And that would just be a general sign of hypothyroidism, right? I think so. Great stuff. Okay, Space99Yak says, Is the herb Boutia Superba root good for DHT? I've never heard of it. Any thoughts, George? I have to look it up. I mean, I don't know. I've heard of the herb, but I don't know. To what mechanism it would be good for DHT. I know nettle root is actually a drug in Germany, and they're using it to treat prostate problems. And they kept saying for years that, oh, it's because it lowers the androgens. And then it turned out it actually, it contains aromatase inhibitors and is raising DHT instead of lowering it. Great stuff. Okay. This one's from Gaza Mongo. And they say, can the thyroid be damaged with exogenous T3? Is the feedback loop shutting the thyroid down activated by a certain amount daily or per dose, i.e. could a small doses be additive rather than a replacement? If you get as much thyroid function as you need, the gland should adjust itself. Always responsive to signals such as adrenaline and TSH. You can shut the TSH down completely and then if you stop shutting it down with the large doses, it pops back very quickly. I've seen my own thyroid gland when I was taking 50 micrograms of T3 per day. I developed holes about as big as my index finger on each side of my Adam's apple between that and the muscles. So I stopped taking the T3 for just a day or two and immediately, within 24 hours, my neck had leveled out. The gland swells and shrinks according to nd, so a lot of doctors will talk about suppressing or damaging your thyroid gland by supplementing because they're reasoning from what happens to your adrenals or testicles if you overdose. One of the hormones, high cortisol or glucocorticoid use, can cause your adrenals to shrink to the point that if you suddenly stop the supplement, you might die from the absence of adrenal production. But the adrenals will gradually, over about a month, recover. If you are well-nourished after you've totally suppressed them with too much cortisol, a thyroid gland only takes a day or so to completely recover. Thanks for that, Ray. Kana? I have a question about pregnenolone and the adrenals. As you know, Ray, the older studies in the early 20th century show that when you give people under stress pregnenolone, it decreases their output of... 17 kilosteroids, isn't that a sign of potential partial adrenal suppression by pregnenolone, or is it simply giving them a break? I think it's supplying whatever function they were producing so they aren't needed. In the study of rats, they... measured their cortisol production and other hormones, and found a normal variation. Most of them were normal. A few were hyper producers of cortisol, but they gave them, I think, was 10 grams of injected stomach full of powdered pregnenolone. And then studied their hormones. There were no endocrine changes that they could detect except in those which had been under stress with high cortisol production. Their cortisol went down to normal receiving those gigantic doses of pregnenolone. So the person basically that's under a lot of stress, pregnenolone. It doesn't just have an anti-cortisol effect, but it also gives the adrenals what they need, gives the adrenals a break, I guess, for lack of a better word. The adrenals and gonads are potentially self-regulating. The pituitary is just there for an additional boost. And Hensely was experimenting with it. Removing adrenals, he found that after the tissue-stored steroids had dissipated, just a moderate amount of stress would kill the animals because they didn't have the adrenal resilience to meet the stress. But where the ordinary... rat would die from a little bit of a stressful situation, he noticed that the pregnant rats didn't even notice, had no ill effects from an increased adaptive stress. And so he experimented removing the adrenals and supplementing progesterone. They lived a normal lifespan with no adrenal hormones at all. Progesterone supplement totally replaced all of the adrenal hormones, aldosterone and cortisol in particular. Have you seen any studies that discuss the effects of pregnenolones specifically on the pituitary? There are a lot of studies. Bicelli and others. Only that old 1950s study in which cortisol was corrected. So you think prognanolone does have a direct effect on the pituitary? Yeah, the same way that any anti-stress substance, progesterone or sugar or aspirin, for example, stop the exaggerated pituitary activity. Okay, great stuff. Thanks for that guys. Okay, this one's from Joshua and he says my wife is 24 years old, experiencing low libido and hot flashes after having our second child. What can be done to bring her sex drive and energy back? Generally, thyroid is the thing, but you have to check the whole nutritional pattern, not getting enough calcium and vitamin D. It interferes with your mitochondrial energy production, regardless of your thyroid status. So drinking milk, taking vitamin D, drinking orange juice, and maybe supplementing thyroid would be the usual thing to do. Thanks for that Ray. Okay, Kana for 2,440 yen and she provides a sticker and I can't really tell what's going on there. Thank you for that Kana. No question there. Okay, so Space99Yak says, Your thoughts on how to reverse the aging process and increase healthspan, the basics and advanced stuff that you might not talk about as much. Carbon dioxide. Very important for stopping the stress and degenerative processes and vitamin D, calcium and thyroid and progesterone are part of their function is to normalize, optimize the balance between carbon dioxide and lactic acid. I have a question about carbon dioxide. You talk about it in your articles as a, it's actually, it is a Lewis acid. And you also talk about partial oxidation, putting the cell in an oxidized state. It has a structure similar to the quinones, it's much simpler, but it does have those two carbonyl groups. But I'm not aware of any direct reaction in the organism where carbon dioxide actually directly takes an electron and becomes reduced in the process. How does its electron withdrawing function work in the organism? The inductive effect, wherever it's attracted to an electron-rich area, those electrons sort of bulge towards the Lewis acid that has an electron attracting effect. The bulging of those electrons by induction through the carbon chain reduces the electron availability two or three carbons down the line. So the whole electronic quality of the whole protein molecule is affected. A shift towards positivity or relative electron deficiency and when you're full of CO2, all of your proteins have that shift and the flavonoids from orange juice and milk and lots of fruits and vegetables, they can by partial oxidation. Like vitamin C inside the cell becomes oxidized and then becomes an electron recipient. The flavonoids become similar electron tractors and shift the whole structure of the cell into that relatively partial electron deficient state. And that affects, through the inductive effect, one protein has its influence on surrounding proteins. So the whole system is a cooperative electron slightly deficient condition, an acidic condition. In other words, the whole cell turns into an acid. So, a more specific example, let's say you have a molecule of NADH, so the reduced version of NADH, the electron carrier. So the presence of high amounts of carbon dioxide, would they be able to directly oxidize NADH back into NAD, or would they have a more indirect effect? Indirect, shifting the whole system, activating the electron transport chain, turning off NADH. Lactic acid production, shifting the balances everywhere, towards reducing lactic acid and NADH and glutathione, shifting it towards the oxidized balance. In the flavonoids, looking at their structure, they actually are capable of becoming fully electron withdrawing agents, right? They will actually be able to oxidize the NADH back to NAD. Yeah, that seems to be why things like phycetan have an anti-aging effect. They turn off the inflammation and stress excess of electron production. And it isn't. One of the ways you have to think about it is that this isn't a static condition, it's a pressure of electrons flowing. They're electrons in motion between the energy source and the electron consuming cytochrome oxidase. So, if you think of the Venturi effect... in gas or water, the pressure goes down as the speed of flow increases. And so what thyroid and these substances, pro-oxidative substances, do is to accelerate the flow of electrons, decreasing the risk of random lipid peroxidation by escaped electrons, because... as the flow increases, the pressure, electronic pressure, decreases, so the whole cell becomes shifted away from electrons towards oxidation. So in theory, combining carbon dioxide, whether... I mean, raising carbon dioxide and having the presence of these direct electron withdrawing agents would be even more therapeutic. Yeah, so... I don't think anyone... knows what the upper limit of oxygen consumption is, but health and longevity, as far as anyone has tested, will increase as that flow rate increases. Have you seen that recent study on phycetein being a very effective senolytic, I think is the word, senolytic chemical? Yeah, I think it's more than that. I think it can actually correct the inflammatory process and not have to kill the cells. Do you think things like neuroengineering, apigenin, other similar flavonoids will have similar effect? Yeah, a lot of them have been tested, for example, for preventing or treating radiation sickness. They're the ultimate in electron excess disease, and they're very powerful in protecting against or curing radiation injury. So it sounds like a glass of orange juice and a little bit of vitamin B1 would be a great combination as an anti-aging agent. Yeah, probably every few minutes a glass of orange juice. Great stuff. Thanks for that guys. Okay space 99 yak, or you know it this uh, this is another one about ivermectin We kind of already talked about that But they say I can ivermectin help protect against the harms of the spike proteins modified by the AstraZeneca DNA vaccine by occupying spike protein receptors You're I don't know if that connection between ivermectin and and the ivermectin receptors by we said earlier that was a risky substance and so it's like combining two risky substances together basically um i think a safer method would be trying to raise the levels of the ace two enzyme because that's what the spike protein binds to if if i'm not mistaken and reasons yeah right that's the the medical establishment was got it exactly backward and the things that it increased the ace to substance and the one to seven and retention fragment which is the result of ace to action those are increasingly recognized as the therapeutic and curative agents and so everything that we know of as protective against COVID involves the increase of the 1 to 7 antitensin and the ACE2 enzyme that produces it. Thanks for that. I found a very interesting study showing that progesterone directly increases and quite dramatically the levels of ACE2 while at the same time lowering the amount of ACE. So it should have like a double punch effect like protecting both from COVID and potentially the spike protein. Of course, there are many other. Bad things in the vaccine, but I think progesterone seems promising based on that study for for protection against at least the virus. Yeah, and it's safe to use all the time. Profoundly. Do you think it may help? I mean, I know there are studies about progesterone and influenza. Have you seen any studies about progesterone and other viral particles? Yeah, it actually has some anti. Viral or anti replication effects stabilizing the cell that makes the virus not have any any support for replicating. Thanks for that. OK, space 99 the access any way of getting rid of acne scars. Depends on what the scar is like. If it's still inflamed, sort of like a. A slight keloid vitamin E and and progesterone applied to it can shut off the production of inflammatory things like estrogen and nitric oxide and restore the the tissue to more or less normal so it loses the inflamed appearance. I have another thing to add. There's a human study showing that a 4% niacinamide solution, separate studies actually one used 4% niacinamide solution in water. The other one used 1% aspirin solution in water. Both of these help to reduce the formation of scars, even in severe acne. I think combining them into one solution 4% and 1% would probably work even better. Great stuff. Okay. This is from Ellie and they say morning temps not budging but day temps improves on Thyroid why morning temps not budging but day temps improves on that So they're taking thyroid they're good That's pretty good While you're lying in bed It hypothyroidism isn't doing so much damage So the important thing is to keep the numbers optimal and steady during the daytime Thanks for that. Thanks Ellie. Thanks Ray Janet pack again another well A lot of these people are chronic supporters of the show, but she just sends a sticker for $50. Thank you so much Janet Dbo 514 for $10 says get yourself some gear son. Thank you so much Dbo 514 Kirk says What's the best strategy for someone with diabetes? With swollen purple legs and significant water retention. Thank you all. I would start with vitamin D, getting adequate calcium, normalizing thyroid, progesterone and pregnenolone. And then when you get your metabolism steady and some of the edema reduced. Then shifting the diet chronically, probably decreasing total protein somewhat to keep your total fat intake lower, any kind of reliance on fat for energy is going to interfere with your sugar use. The thyroid and calcium and vitamin D are going to help restore your ability to oxidize glucose. Thanks Kirk, thanks Ray. Teresa and Diana both sent super chats, but no questions. Thank you Diana, thank you Teresa. Another one from SpaceX. They say best med supplements to increase mitochondria and mitochondrial function. Carbon dioxide is essential and very powerful for that, and so all of the things that support oxidative metabolism are going to shift you towards the better supply of carbon dioxide, and the end-to-tension inhibitors are starting to be recognized as supporting mitochondrial. Energy production, reducing inflammation and degeneration. So the boutique supplement of breathing into a bag, right? Yeah. Okay, Kirk has another question here. He says, my 67-year-old mother has one 1.2 centimeter nodule on her thyroid. Her TSH is 2.5, free T4 1.0, however, her TPO AB is 32.9 IU slash ML, which is well beyond the 5.5 limit. What would you suggest to correct the nodule? Thank you. Which one was high? TPO AB, thyroid peroxidase, is that what it is? TPO AB, 32.9. Correcting, getting the TSH down to......something like 0.4 would be tremendously helpful. Thanks for that Ray, thanks Kirk. Cornelia says, any thoughts on how to treat excess saliva? It happens whenever I eat, I get massive excess saliva. Foods high in choline, eggs, etc. are a lot worse, I think. It is a cholinergic crisis. Often getting your thyroid going helps to shift... your balance towards sympathetic adrenaline activity and suppress the parasympathetic. Thanks for that Cornelius. Thanks Ray. Zachary says 16 year old breast cancer received radiation, had a lupine lump benectomy, had a couple had a couple lump scars since now lump scars since Now 19, what remedies would you recommend to help prevent it coming back? Lower estrogen slash cortisol question mark? Sure. Thyrated vitamin D and aspirin are very powerful protectants against estrogen and cancer development. Thanks for that, Zachary. Thanks, Ray. Cornelius has another one. He says, Does Ray have any thoughts as to why taking supplemental T3 may cause a negative change in body odor? Negative being worsening? That's what I assume. Yeah, it can increase your sweat production. And just taking one or two showers with... Ten percent sulfur soap can eliminate permanently a bad balance of bacteria on your skin and can make a difference in the odor of your body, the sweat, for a long time. Thanks for that, Ray. Thanks, Cornelius. Simon says, what are your opinions on nicotine as a pro-metabolic substance, and is there some overlap with nicotinamide? No, I don't think there's any overlap that I've ever run across. What about you, George? Do you know of any overlap? I don't know of any overlap. I think there is some evidence that nicotinamide is low-dose. There are some studies showing that it's a powerful aromatase inhibitor, and there are some other components of tobacco leaves, such as cotinine, which is structurally similar to nicotine, but they all seem to activate the adrenergic sympathetic system when overdone. So the animal studies that I've seen that showed protection for Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, and cancers, they use the equivalent of one to two milligrams daily, which is half a cigarette. And I think most people that use the nicotine gums or the patches, they consume drastically more and it becomes very quickly becomes a stress agent. At least that's what I've seen. On the excess saliva question, I should have mentioned that the things that promote the sympathetic system, such as atropine or even the anticholinergic effects. of ciproheptadiene and the antihistamines are likely to help. Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. OK, Victoria says, How do I lengthen my menstrual cycle, both follicular and luteal phase? I'm 26 years old and my cycle ranges from 23 to 29 days, with 26 being the average. That seems close enough. Increasing the thyroid level will lower the estrogen and sometimes that will make it click into a very standard 28-day cycle, but I've never seen any bad effects associated with a variation of only 26 to 29 days. Great stuff. Thanks for that ring. Okay. Our comrade, our buddy comrade James for $30 us, but no question. Thank you. Comrade James, uh, Francis Bacon cheeseburger says recommendations for daily progesterone routine for a male in their thirties. If you don't have any symptoms, I think just a drop or two of progesterone or. Maybe five milligrams has a probably protective general stamina increasing effect. We get a lot of people saying they're taking men, taking 20, 30 milligrams, you know, like, and they seem to be doing really well on it. And that seems to be some, Georgie and I are both constantly inundated with that anecdote. So that is very interesting. Sometimes that's enough to shrink a man's penis temporarily, but for others because it inhibits the conversion of testosterone to estrogen, sometimes it's powerfully libido-promoting pro-testosterone, but it's very individual. I get emails all the time from men over 50 saying that. They using a hundred milligrams from projects the and and they they recovered their morning erections, which they had lost like 20 years ago. Very good thanks for that ray and thank you frances bacon cheeseburger okay jane i think the same question jane we already talked about james. Zach says do people typically experience negative symptoms during the process of reducing endotoxin cortisol serotonin or estrogen. i.e. getting worse before they get better. I always doubted that's an old medical trick. I give you my personally compounded drug and you get very sick. That's evidence that it's curing you. When you get sick after a vaccine that's evidence that it's working they are saying now. But that's been a constant centuries old ploy of the medical industry to say you have to get worse before you get better. Yeah, when they cut, burn or poison you, you're going to get worse first. Or at least they're saying, look, we actually gave you something that does have an effect. It's not a placebo. Isn't there like a name for this? I think it's called like a Hertzheimer reaction or something like that. Yeah. That's basically the same thing, a medical invention to defend the harm they do. So the heroic therapy for cancer is basically an extreme version of that. They kill you in order to save you. Yeah. So statistics show that the survival rate has never been improved by. Surgery, radiation or chemotherapy as a whole. Individual studies are constantly showing it. But if you added up the thousands of individual evidence of benefit, it would be very strange that on the whole population you see, if anything, a slightly... worsening of the outcome. I'm just refreshing my page here so I can get more of the superchats. Who was the guy? Harry Rubin? Henry Rubin? The guy that went across the world and he found that treating cancer was of no value at all. At least by standard medical procedures. Yeah, I was at a seminar in 1969, I think, a world conference on the immune system. And he, and a beginning Oregon instructor in biology, was the only truth-oriented people there. All of the big shots from around the world were there, and they were all doing their phony thing. And Harry Rubin and this young professor, no one listened to them very much, but they actually had facts and supported evidence and interesting stories that showed the falseness of what all the immunologists were doing. Amazing. We have about 30 more minutes here, so we'll rush through these, not rush through, we'll try to get through as many questions as possible. Ray, Pete, thank you so much for doing this, you know, sincerely appreciate it. Georgi Dinkov, thank you so much for being my partner in crime and always doing all of these and making the show what it is. Thank you to both you guys, thank you for our amazing listenership which is extremely dedicated and loyal and sincerely appreciate all of you guys so much. Okay, so a Jordan for $5 no message. Thank you so much Jordan Elliott cactus says how is thc and cbd understood in the bio and bio energetic view of health any recommendations dietary supplements slash drugs lifestyle for regular regular marijuana users. Oh. I was at thc was that the question yeah how is thc and cbd understood in a bio energetic view. I've been looking for the real beneficial effects and it's always very ambiguous as far as i can see it is Saturday and in some circumstances anti inflammatory but not always. And if for many years I haven't been able to resolve the ambiguity ambiguity to. I have a definite opinion. Thanks for that, thank you, Elliot, good one more thing for me to add study from 2017 came out demonstrated that pregnant alone can antagonize most of the intoxicating effects of marijuana, which is probably not what people are looking for. They're trying to get high on it, but also animal studies subsequently show that it can protect from some of the anti androgenic effects and estrogenic effects of marijuana as well. I guess if somebody is using heavily marijuana and wants to continue to use it, which I don't think it's a good idea, but if that's their thing, I the human equivalent of about 30 to 50 milligrams of pregnant alone based on the mouse study seems to be able to block most of the negative effects and some of the positive if sedation is your thing. Thanks for that guys appreciate it okay David boy for 499 thank you so much no message Thank you David. Jordan okay this is might have been this question he says preparing for dark days ahead what supplements should my wife and I have on hand and how do you recommend storing us dogs chickens living in MN I'm is that Minnesota Minnesota yeah. I'm dark dark days and what's him I is cyber attack on a. BLM infiltration in your home like you know the I guess all the things were chronically food chain disruptions and things like that. I'm having some stable calorie supplies and some protein. Your if the crisis comes you're going to want to share your supplies with the people who didn't stock up so you. The quantity that you put away should be economical and and long lasting we happen to have a barrel or two of coconut oil and it's always good to have a few 20 pound bags of sugar and maybe 40 pounds of gelatin powder on hand. Great stuff. Great suggestions. KBP. Quick question about the food. Have you seen, Ray, have you seen that Walmart sells this thing called astronaut food supply? And they're basically commercializing what NASA did in the 70s. Basically, it's powdered eggs, dehydrated milk, sugar. And I think they have some kind of a starch, which I don't remember what the source of that was. But basically, they claim it's a complete diet that can last for a century at room temperature and they're selling three months, six months, twelve months supplies. Do you think there's any value in getting those dehydrated eggs and milk or do you think it's dangerous? I've always wanted to have a good supply of powdered milk on hand, but I've been having trouble finding out. Exactly how they prepare the particles that don't clump, and I've been afraid that they're using nanoparticles as anti-clumping agents, and so for the present, I would not rely too heavily on that. What about evaporated slash condensed milk, which is sold in cans? You basically get the equivalent of a gallon of milk in a small can. Yeah, I think that's good to have, that the can might eventually deteriorate, but it'll last quite a while and maybe some canned sardines. Great stuff. Thanks for that. Okay. KBB for $9.99. No message. Thank you so much, KBB. TrueHealth, again, says, I seem to get, um, lup. Uh, a low, a lump in my throat feeling, an itchy spots slash hives on my body from Sinomal slash Sinoplus. Any solutions? How fast was it taken? That's sometimes the problem. If you try to correct the problem in just a few days or a week, that can cause the gland to shrink so much that you get discomfort in your throat. Interesting. And we talked about it a little bit earlier. I think this is probably worth clarifying. How much do you think is too much at one time with food? For T3? Yeah, T3. With a meal, 10 micrograms is probably the maximum that you want. Otherwise, it shouldn't be over 5. micrograms at a time. The meal will spread it out quite a bit and make it a steadier supply. And last question for me, would you feel confident swallowing that tablet that it would dissolve in the stomach or would you chew it? Oh, I always chew any tablet. It helps you know somewhat what it's made of. Is there any benefit in taking thyroid with fat, long chain fats, in order to go through the lymphatic system instead of most of it going to the liver? I think as it suggests, it's going to distribute itself. The amino acids that are more hydrophobic might get taken up in the chylomicrons. Great stuff. Thanks for that, guys. Okay, Tom says, I've had numerous people note the development of varicose veins with progenital and progesterone use. Please could Ray comment on this? Thanks all. I would question the quality of the supplement used first, because their biological functions are just the opposite. I've seen horribly bulging veins normalize in an hour with a big dose of progesterone, and more slowly with a big dose of, or many big doses of, pregnenolone. I think someone who got bad products reported that and started people. Thinking about it and then if they don't get immediate improvement, they think they might be getting worse. I wanted to add something to that. I've also seen, I mean, it's very important to make the distinction between varicose veins and more well-defined veins. Sometimes people when they have edema, you can't even see the veins, even the contours on their hand or their legs. And when they take progesterone or pregnenolone, the edema is rapidly... decreases and then the veins become more visible. That's not the same as as varicose veins. I've never seen a person develop varicose veins from pregnenolone or progesterone. Yeah, the effect when you get enough is exactly the opposite. For example, a big vein known to be so bulging that it can't possibly have any valve action. With a very big dose of progesterone, the muscle can be activated to the point that the vein narrows and the flaps of valve on each side of the vein can then reach each other and close off the flow. What would you consider a big dose in that context? Depends on how high you're... estrogen is, if a person has very high estrogen that might take 400 milligrams of progesterone, but that amount would knock some people out. And we're talking orally, right? Yeah. Okay, do you think there's any benefit in taking lower dose orally to avoid the sedation and rubbing like, I guess, the other half on the actual vein? Yeah, putting it topically on... while taking a moderate dose is probably the best approach. Great stuff. OK, Gaza Mongo says, any critique on the croissant diet claims SCD1 causes obesity and sugar raises that. It's a low PUFA, super high saturated fat diet. There was a study showing eating a ton of French croissants which basically were baked with almost fully saturated fat but also of course a lot of starch in them led to a drastic weight loss and improvement in health. The sucrose itself, some experiments show that you can increase the metabolic rate by 20 percent just with sucrose. And so when you do it just right, sugar is a very powerful weight loss instrument. Great stuff. Thanks for that, Ray. Okay, we're heading to the end of our time here, but I'll keep reading these. KT has no message. Thank you so much, KT, for your donation. Yodi the Wodel says, alcohol in terms of capitalizing on the social libidinal economy. I recently realized I wasn't drinking enough. What amount is best for lipofuscin? I wasn't drinking enough. That's great. Vitamin E is known to be fairly effective at clearing up lipofuscin. Progesterone is effective and the amount of alcohol that can clear it up is very small. Something like a gram or two a day is enough to have a helpful effect on lipofuscin. Space99Yak again says, Georgie said the outer layer of the adrenal gland atrophy. Is there any way to reverse that if that happens to someone and any way of knowing if it has? Pregnenolone and progesterone both help to protect the adrenal so they can regenerate. What I meant by that comment was that with aging, the layer that produces DHEA and pregnenolone tends to atrophy and the only one that remains is the cortisol producing one. Ray, what was that guy? He has like a series of excellent papers on this subject. I think Parker. Do you know what I'm talking about? Like he studied this in depth? No. It doesn't ring a bell. No worries. Okay, last few questions here. Spencer says a 30 male low total cholesterol 116 to 119 and DHEA for the left and low DHEA for the last 10 years Got the cholesterol up to 166 cutting starch with the using the carrot salad increasing sugar fructose and calcium Have all hypo symptoms, but my temps and pulses are normal any advice. Why not on any thyroid? What kind of symptoms? Or hyper. I'm not sure what that means. Maybe I misspoke. He said hypo. So I think this person had gynecomastia. I think he had thinning hair, and I think he had a kind of classical, I can't remember, maybe constipation as well, but kind of like classical types of hyposymptoms. And temperature was normalized? I think he was reading them on a... they were higher, like, through the day, but in general, I think this person felt terrible. Um, the checking, checking for anything pro-inflammatory in the diet would be a first step to see if inflammation was interfering with their function. Um, wouldn't sometimes very high cortisol and serotonin produce... like a, like a high body temperature at the expense of destroying the muscles and everything else? Yeah, the stress hormones generally rise when your thyroid is low and it takes quite a while when you're in under stress to, to adapt fully to the thyroid supplements. So, uh, Bruno Barnes, uh, uh, over his career, uh, learns that it was... uh, best to, uh, aim for three or four months, uh, for full, uh, correction with thyroid, uh, and people, uh, get so impatient, they, they think of, uh, uh, correcting an deficiency, uh, uh, as, uh, uh, sort of a, a matter of a day or two, but, uh, it really, uh, uh, uh, since the whole system, uh, has to evolve, uh, in a different direction, uh, under the... the better energy supply, uh, you should look at the time scale of, uh, something like three months. Yeah, I think he has a whole section on that in his book, like, uh, what to expect and when, and when changes will occur and when they won't. Um, great stuff. Okay, Andrew Gassil says, um, thank you, Tyromax is the bomb. I can sweat again. Thanks, Andrew. Oscar Gomez for $5, but no message. Thank you, Oscar. Uh, mercy me for 999, but no message. Thank you. Mercy me, Ben. Uh, he says, take more of my money. Thanks, Ben. Uh, Carlos Rangel for a, just a sicker, but no message. Thank you, Carlos. Car, Carlin Brooks for 25 dollars, but no message. Thank you so much, Carlin. And let me just refresh this page really quick. And while I'm doing that, Ray, what are you working on right now? I'm not, not working on anything, but thinking about the, some of the old themes, uh, uh, uh, giving them a new perspective. Uh, uh, atherosclerosis and estrogen, for example, uh, something related to that is going to be my next newsletter. Speaking of, uh, the older views, um, since Metchikov was an embryologist, do you know of any field in medicine or science in general that's still retaining some of those views and teaching them to the younger generations? No, they were all effectively erased from the, uh, profession. Uh, by, uh, by the mid 1950s, uh, and, and so the, uh, a few of the very young people are starting to look around, uh, and, uh, might be hope for the future. I can't believe this. We're probably going to get through the questions here. So guys, we have 187 people watching. Please give this episode a like. I know it's arbitrary, but it really helps with the show. Um, again, thank you to Ray for sitting here and being barraged by... questions for two hours. Sincerely appreciate it. Thank you, Georgi Dinkov. Again, my partner in crime making this all possible. So there's just a few more questions. Maybe we can get through these and just call it a night. But, um, okay. So I mentioned Carlin, this one's a Scout, and they say, do you think magnetoaffection could have been added to the COVID vaccine to facilitate the mRNA getting into the cell? Could that explain all the magnetic videos on the internet? I don't think they had to. Add anything. The naked nucleic acids have no problem getting into cells. I think they were calling the lipid coat a necessary way to get it in the cells, but when they've compared lipid encapsulated DNA molecules with free DNA, in some situations the free DNA. Works better than the lipid encapsulated forms and I think the real situation is likely to be that the so-called lipid carrier is really a powerful, adjuvant source of information. Thanks for that. Another sticker from Fujiha. Thank you so much for that. Peggy. Hey, Peggy. She says, how to use progesterone to postpone menopause. Thank you. Oh, just using it cyclically is the important thing so that your liver doesn't get in the habit of squeezing it too fast. So you have to lay off for one or two weeks every month and stay on cycle with it. I've mentioned before that. I met a gynecologist who was in the 70s and he had this very young looking wife. He said that I've been giving her a progesterone every month for 20 years and she's still menstruating at the age of 63. That's amazing. Okay, this one's from Nancy. She just sent a sticker. Thank you so much, Nancy. Space99Yach again for, he says, the benefits, talk about the benefits of allopregnanolone. It's mostly what progesterone does. It's one of the important conversion products in the brain, a neuro steroid. And so everything we think of, progesterone doing to mood perception, stability, stopping seizures, helping with psychosis. It's really partly the effect of the allopregnenolone. Amazing. Thanks, Space99X. Thank you, Ray. And the last, maybe we have three questions left. Okay, this one's from Gregory. And what is the time here? Okay, this one, Gregory says for the last few years, my father has developed excessively dry palms to the point they crack and the flesh is exposed. Doctors don't know what the cause is and just prescribe ointments. Any ideas? Thank you, Ray. Check his thyroid. It's responsible for both sebum and sweat production in the skin. If your thyroid is low, your skin. Almost invariably gets dry. You feel very good. You might feel panic and anxiety. To the extent that it's turning to lactic acid. Thanks for that, Ray. Thank you, Zach. Okay, last question here. Kirk, he says, Hi Ray, I think I have heard you mentioned in a talk that a thousand calories a day while still getting all the RDA protein as well as for vitamins and minerals is an effective short-term way to lose weight in the short term. Any truth to this? Yeah, it isn't good for your health. If you have to lose weight, keeping the minerals up is very important. Calcium, magnesium, potassium and sodium are very protective against too much of the stress reaction. I have a related question. We're now starting human studies with the drug RU-486, which you have an article about. Mentioning the drug ray and it's basically even though it's known as the abortion pill was developed as a cortisol blocker that was its original design and purpose and now they're having several clinical trials showing sustained rapid and sustained weight loss by using anywhere between 300 to 600 milligrams of that thing daily. Do you think something similar can be achieved with progesterone instead of messing with the diet and drastically reducing the calories? Yeah, carefully adjusting your thyroid and progesterone and DHEA, pregnenolone. Those can sustain a very high metabolic rate, increased body temperature so that you burn calories much faster. And Pyotr Bagnusky basically said, how to burn fat while eating the rape heat inspired diet, I gained 10 pounds and so it kind of intersects with what we were just talking about. What should be the focus if a person is gaining weight? Not to eat so many calories first and then to gradually shift towards a lower fat intake, whatever keeps your temperature up. Without having an excess of calories, then as your temperature stays higher, you'll be burning more calories and be able to eat more and more up to maybe 3,000 calories a day for a sedentary person without getting fat. Thanks for that. And Goly Ag doesn't have a question, but they donated $20. Thank you, Goly. And then Space Yak, again, donated more cash. Thank you so much, Space Yak. We're going to call it there. Ray, I don't like keeping you more than two hours. Is there anything specifically interesting that you feel like needs a spotlight shined on that's happened through medical or cultural or anything like that? Or do you have to go and we can also just let you go? Well, more and more kids are dying right after. Getting vaccinated, so I think more people are starting to think in terms of murder rather than coincidental deaths when they get sudden swelling of the heart that kills them. I sense the public is slowly starting to wake up. Didn't the CDC like stealth edit their page or something and say that kids actually did not need vaccine when they had been promoting the idea for a period of months or so? Yeah, they said that very openly and then the reaction from the press was such that they erased it from their website. Someone who mentioned the original statement that kids don't need the vaccination. His comment was censored as contrary to Facebook's policy. So, in effect, the World Health Organization was censored by Facebook. And people might not tolerate kids dying as much as they would just older adults. Yeah, everyone is fine with 80 or 100 percent of the people in the nursing home. And I write after getting vaccinated, but when a 13 year old kid dies suddenly three days after a second vaccination, people are starting to question authority. And then this is not won't be surprising to you, but I did peruse a paper. It was something like 84 year old man autopsy after first Pfizer vaccine. And the gist of the paper was something like all of his vital organs contained the. What is it, like the RNA, the viral, the spike protein or something? And so again, just more confirmation of everything you've been saying since March of 2020, that that this whole thing is a total charade and it's not localized and that it likely killed this person like 18 days after. And I guess this was like a landmark because it was the first autopsy of somebody who'd been vaccinated. Yeah, and people should keep remembering that that there was, um, uh, uh, uh, sorry. Uh, was effectively wiped out, uh, by the surge in so-called COVID deaths, uh, uh, mean, meaning that the total pneumonia deaths, uh, didn't change. Do you think, have you seen some of the new proposals in Congress and Senate to break up and rein in big, big tech? Do you think there's any, there's any, um, I don't know, honesty to these efforts or do you think it's, it's all a game? Uh, to rein in what? The big technology companies censoring people left and right and basically destroying society as we know it? It's hard to imagine that person surviving a breakup of the computer industry and Facebook and Amazon. Uh, uh, uh, uh, that's such a, uh, uh, uh. Totalitarian system, uh, uh, I doubt that she's going to be able to accomplish anything. So basically the empire really depends on for his survival on, on the, on the big tech complex. So any attempt to support that will probably be met with brutality. I would guess so. And then last question, uh, any. Thoughts on impending cyber attack, you know, cyber polygon, the world economic forum, it's going to happen next month and it's not rare for these things to go live after a month or two. You know, is there anything you're doing right? And like, how would you survive if if infrastructure and things collapsed? After a while, I'm sure I would end up in Mexico. But you don't really depend on the internet to live a productive life, do you? No, not at all. It may be a blessing in disguise, you'll simply go back to pen and paper and calling people on the phone and meeting them in person? Yeah, sort of hoping that that will happen actually. Yeah, it'd be kind of counterintuitive for the system that sustains the ignorance to be turned off, but... Some people are saying people would go like psychotic within a week or two. Do you think there's any truth to that? No. No? Interesting. Well, unless you define psychotic as contact or reality. There may be a withdrawal period, a period of like abstinence or something, but I also agree. I think people will quickly discover how much they've been duped and how much they don't want their internet connection back. Thank you. Uh, including throwing away their cell phones. Okay, great stuff. I won't hold you any a bit longer. Stay on the line. We'll just say thank you again. Uh, so Ray, thank you so much for doing this. Georgie, thank you so much. And we have an amazing listenership and I'll stay up after this and I'll do timestamps for all these questions and things and sincerely appreciate all the support. When you see us again, I think we'll be have a souped up system. And it will be very nice and my computer won't be overheating and on the verge of collapse every single time we do this. So guys, thank you so much. Special appreciation to Ray for just two hours answering questions. And Georgie, thank you again. And thank you to our amazing listenership and audience. Have a safe weekend, everybody, and we'll talk to you guys soon. OK, take care. Bye, everyone. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.