 Nothing is more expensive than bad information. Know the source. OneRadioNetwork.com Well, a very pleasant good morning to you. This is Patrick Timpone. Welcome to our second show. Sorry we couldn't finish up the show with Richard Massey earlier, but somebody's internet was not happening, and we couldn't even do the audio thing, so we had to wrap it up early, but Dr. Pete's on the phone here, so we should be able to venture through, regardless of what happens on the internet, at the very worst we'll have the recording for you. We're kind of doing things differently moving forward. We've been censored and deleted from YouTube and from Vimeo, and some of the other ones are not working for us yet, Gap or BitChute, we're trying to figure out, and so we're just going to really focus in on the audio shows, make sure we have those for you, which is all the counts, right? You know what I look like, and you know what Ray Pete looks like, and what does it matter? So... That's where we're heading, and we're just going to be able to deliver good, high-quality shows, and at least with the audio, and we're playing around with some video ideas, to be able to put them up on some places with just a slide, but be that as it may, we are focusing on just to make sure we have the highest quality, the best people. that get asked the best questions, so you can learn some things about what's going on in the world from some very interesting people like Ray Pete, who you'll meet here in a minute. Dr. Christopher Exley, he is going to be on tomorrow. Dr. Exley probably knows more about aluminum than most people in the world. Really good guy. Richard Lyons Wyler, who participated in that 13 year study in the northwest up near Dr. Pete, where they were really looking at the health of aluminum....of unvaccinated and vaccinated children. A great study, and Dr. Weiler was on the show talking about it. You can find it in the audio archives a couple weeks ago. And he suggested that mercury was one of the real real bugaboos in these vaccines. I'm sorry, aluminum, aluminum. So because of that we contacted Dr. Exley and he's going to be on tomorrow. Judy Mikovich is going to be here on Wednesday. She was involved with Fauci and this whole HIV scam way way back and she says there was never any HIV virus. It was just all a big scam. We'll see about that. Charlie Sewell is going to be here and he'll be here on also on Wednesday. I'm with this alleged inauguration, we'll see if that happens as planned and there's some very strange things going on there that you don't even want to think about or you'll probably learn about, we'll see. But anyway, Charlie is a great researcher, I've known him for probably 20 years and he says there are some real specific, legal, powerful things you can do to hold elected officials accountable that are invading your life in one way or another, which is very timely these days. About this and you haven't heard this anywhere in the internet anywhere except you'll hear it here on on Wednesday on the third Wednesday a Monday of the month rather. Dr. Ray Pete is a kind enough to come by. He's a good man He's been around a long time a little over 80 revolutions around the Sun PhD in biology University of Oregon. He specialized in physiology. He taught at the University of Oregon a lot of different places. He conducts he also conducted. He doesn't any more nutritional counseling Private he started his work with progesterone and related hormones in 68 and papers in physiology chemistry and physics 71 and 72 his dissertation In the dissertation. He outlined his ideas regarding progesterone and the hormones closely related to it as protectors of the body's structure and energy against the harmful effects of estrogen radiation stress and lack of oxygen Hmm pretty cool. He has Ray Pete's newsletter dot-com Ray Pete's newsletter gmail.com And we'll tell you more about that if you want to get it. And so he's on the phone. Dr. Peter a very pleasant Good morning to you, sir. Good morning It's good to hear you're having actually on and that made Supposed that you might find someone to talk about the adjuvant quality of the lipids they're using in the RNA so-called vaccine The adjuvant quality of the lipids that they're using in this so-called vaccine vaccine Yeah, when when I googled the names of those lipids a company came up which sells supposedly Those are similar lipids as a vehicle or a carrier Medium for introducing Drugs, but they've been selling them the very same lipids for years as adjuvants so It seems to me that Pfizer is Using them nominally as a mere carrier for the RNA but Conveniently their lipids that function as adjuvants so they leave out The The aluminum which actually will explain And put in something which is possibly Even worse for Creating inflammation in the whole body Well, so I should ask him about the adjuvants quality Are the lipid quality of the adjuvants. Is that right? That's what I really want to ask him about to explain what he knows well, well that would The best explanation would require a lipid specialist I see It's an extremely Specialized branch of lipids I'm sure there are People who know about it who would be glad to talk but I haven't Even looked for those people right Have you um? Have you been able to look at these? So-called vaccines for the corona and really determine what could be going on here. That is not good I mean we're hearing reports of people getting sick and and dying and uh, well, can you tell us what you've seen? uh with your research uh, it's an opportunity for pfizer to uh, lie and deceive Uh, uh, uh immediately when uh, the dr. Gregory michael died of an absence of blood platelets, uh, uh, uh, after he got sick, uh, the automatic, uh, blood analyzer reported zero platelets, uh, and, uh, they thought that must be a mistake, so they counted by hand, uh, and found one, uh, platelet in the batch instead of hundreds. Uh, and then Pfizer said, uh, uh, that there's no reason, uh, to, uh, believe that there could be a connection, uh, uh, between failure of platelet production, uh, uh, and vaccine. But people, the government has already compensated people, uh, for other vaccines, uh, causing, uh, that, uh, uh, fatal disease. And, uh, the, uh, uh, substance PEG in other vaccines seems to be responsible, uh, for creating the immune reaction that kills the platelet system. And the measles, mumps, rubella vaccine is the one that has been most incriminating. Really? So even those childhood vaccines they give really generously to young kids, it's doing something negative to their platelets? Yes, someone familiar with that situation says that between 1 in 25,000 and 1 in 40,000 people vaccinated develop the platelet deficiency. And when you have tens of millions of people vaccinated that starts being a lot of seriously, often fatally damaged people. Dr. Ray Pete is here, it is Monday morning, January 18th and if you'd like to ask a question Patrick at oneradionetwork.com, Patrick at oneradionetwork.com. We posted a video of Dr. Thomas Cowan MD on this whole RNA stuff that's going on in these vaccines and I sent it to you and he also had some things to say about the virus that he's still not a germ theory guy whatsoever. I sent that to you and I think a lot of our listeners must have watched it, we had it up for about a week. Can you talk about what you think is going on with that and value or things that you may agree or disagree with Cowan on his video that he had out? I basically agree that the terrain is the important thing. The so-called pathogenic agent has to find a receptive terrain and it happens that about 90% of current population doesn't present a terrain for a pathogen like that to grow in. But some of the things that affect a terrain are vaccinations. For example, people who've had an influenza vaccination are much more likely to, the following year, develop a coronavirus condition rather than influenza. And... The world figures for influenza show... A practically complete disappearance of influence around the world, but the best fudged claims for effectiveness are around 50% for the influenza vaccine. Some of them claim higher, but some people have pointed out that they're changing definitions to get that high result. I think it's about 10 different studies that have shown the year after an influenza vaccination, the incidence of corona infections and other conditions is much higher. So vaccines are one of the things that prepares the terrain for the problems such as pneumonia. So you talk about the terrain and then this corona of experience, so are you suggesting then that the person's terrain determines whether or not they have some kind of symptoms or some kind of illness called corona from a virus that is in fact circulating that can be......given to one another, transport? Well, even that isn't very clear because they haven't done thorough studies of coronaviruses. Common cold viruses from the people have had repeatedly over the years, and like a common cold, there have been very few people who've caught the apparent coronavirus twice, but that's like one in a million. It isn't as effective as the common cold by that appearance. One of the videos that Dr. Common talked about, he suggests that they've been time and time again that they've actually tried to Dr. Pete exchange say snot or saliva of somebody with flu symptoms and putting into another person, and they've never really been able to make it appear in that person. With influenza, I think the studies I know of were in animals and in lab cultures so they can clearly demonstrate that it transfers from one animal to another. They don't want to give the full influenza to a person but with human cells in culture, they can also get infection from the same virus that they're transmitting from one animal to another. In culture, and Cowan argues though, just because it's in culture and a plague doesn't mean it happens between humans. No, it isn't absolute proof. That's very rare anywhere in science. Is there proof about anything in science that we know for sure? No. The practical aspect is the best we have, not absolute logical truth. By the way, Fauci and almost everyone in government is treating science as an absolute all-or-none. They have disproved this and proved that. That it's all magic or some kind of cult rather than science. You know, we've heard this term, Koch's postulates, that you really can't absolutely prove that somebody died from something, these Koch's postulates, and they're similar, aren't they, Dr. P, to some kind of five or four or five different really logical things that have to transpire to prove that somebody died from something? It's never possible to absolutely prove what someone died from. Really? Never? They might have. When a person is in a weak condition, just a slight change of temperature might be enough to be the actual cause of death. Or you could choose any of the things that contributed to the loss of energy in their system. Hypothyroidism has almost always involved weakness of the adrenal system, a bias in the pituitary, all kinds of nutritional deficiencies or excesses will contribute to the energy weakness and could be focused on this cause of death. So if you look at a thousand people, you could pick out big groups of people dying from a particular nutritional deficiency or hypothyroidism or insufficient adrenal steroids. The existing low body temperature from multiple failures of metabolism, things that can be repaired, that simple low body temperature creates inflammatory reactions that look just like the reaction you get from a virus or some bacteria and so on. So simply a low body temperature, maybe because you didn't eat at the normal time and then a cold wind blew through, that will kill lots of people. Isn't that interesting? In a way, some of these old period piece movies in the 15, 16, 1700s actually alluded to that a little bit, where somebody could really get sick and possibly even die from getting over chilled and things like that. It's almost like they were kind of on to this kind of stuff long ago. Absolutely. That's interesting, isn't it? And in the 19th century, inflammation of the bowel was a very common cause of death. And what would be that, just bad food and overeating? Yeah, bad microbe culture in your intestine. The WHO is out and on record, I saw the video saying that anybody who has tested positive for this COVID and they die, then that's put down as a COVID death and all indications are that the PCR test, as we've talked about in previous shows, is just not accurate, could be way, way off. Go ahead. They were not only instructed to... list the COVID virus as cause of death. They were paid out of the government compensation fund. If they diagnosed the infection, they would get, I think it was $14,000 support from the government. If they had to intubate the person because of slightly low oxygen pressure or saturation, they would get $48,000. So hospitals were not only instructed to diagnose cause of death, they were paid to incline them toward diagnosing the COVID as cause of death. That whole period, the supposed huge spike, there was a very high proportion of the people in hospitals getting intubated and dying just as what was known would happen. After three or four days of intubation, there was very little chance of recovering. One doctor very early in the process helped bring intubation to an end for COVID. He showed that in the hospital he caused to use a very simple nasal cannula to provide oxygen when needed. There was zero mortality from COVID pneumonia. An adjacent high quality hospital that was following the World Health and CDC recommendations had 60% mortality, absolute night and day difference just from using intubation. Now what's the word? Putting a tube with forced oxygen into their lungs. Down the throat or just directly into the lung? Directly into the lung, down the throat. And to do that they have to paralyze their muscles and anesthetize them. Two basic very serious drugs that have to be given constantly to keep them from waking up and trying to reject the tube. One patient who happened to be an addict and wasn't anesthetized because he was so insensitive to it. He woke up and pulled the tube out. He was the only one that survived the process in that hospital. His health was worse, but because he pulled his tube out, he was able to survive. Wow. So I guess big picture, Dr. Pete, it's almost, see if I'm close on this, and when somebody leaves their body, or we call dying, there could be innumerable things contributing to this loss of energy. And do you really, it's not like you could ever really pinpoint, say, well, he died of a heart attack or he died of this or that. It's almost like the person, it was almost like it was their time to go, and their body was failing a little here, a little here, a little here. You know what I'm saying? Does that make sense at all to you, or what I'm kind of saying? Have you heard of the voodoo deaths? Voodoo deaths? No. A person makes the voodoo priest or priestess angry, or they might have been bribed by someone to tell them that they have put a spell on them, person in perfect health, and the person will be convinced that they have been affected by the voodoo principle, and they'll just wither away and die within a few days. So that's real. I mean, when we believe something like that. Yeah. I'm sure something like that goes on as soon as you get a diagnosis of a fatal heart disease or cancer. Cancer. Sure. There's no way to really calculate or to analyze and know exactly for each soul of how much their belief of what they think they have is affecting them, and we just wouldn't know. That's more of a spiritual thing, right? Yeah. Lots of people don't know they're sick until they get the diagnosis, and then they feel very sick. George, you have cancer. Wait a minute. I feel great. Really, that happens very often. Wow. So then there's no way of calculating, Dr. Ray P, on this coronavirus experience of how much fear or angst or worry is going on with people who do get a positive test, and we know how accurate that is, and what their experience is after that. And since they stopped the mandatory... power of respiration, which destroys the lungs after about three or four days. In a healthy person, if there was any reason to do it, animal studies show that forced oxygen treatment of their lungs destroys the lungs and kills them. But the... As soon as that process was ended, because of the evidence between hospitals using it and avoiding it, as soon as that process ended, there is no visible excess mortality. I don't know whether... Last month I mentioned Genevieve Briand at Johns Hopkins. I don't... It kind of sounds familiar. Genevieve Briand? She did a statistical study, and her figures, based all on the CDC numbers, show no excess mortality for the period she analyzed. When they took them off of the ventilator. For the whole year, even including the ventilator time, she shows that the very CDC figures show nothing really happened in the way of a pandemic over the whole population. Oh, comparing, you mean, to past years and such? Passes. Yeah, comparing it to past death rates and such. Yeah, and her, as soon as someone noticed that a lot of people were reading the article, Johns Hopkins canceled their website and is still available on other websites. And there's a good analysis of her article on a statistical site called The Censorship of Genevieve Briand. Wow, and you can Google that? Yeah, I don't have their address. That's okay. The Censorship of Genevieve Briand. And how do you spell Genevieve's last name? B-R-I-A-N-D-E. Oh, B-R-I-A-N-D Briand. Oh, interesting. I think there's an E on the end. And she published through Johns Hopkins and they just canceled the whole thing or censored it. Yeah, she's a professor there, but in another subject, and so they said it wasn't proper to have an opinion on statistics. I wonder if we could reach her, if she'd be fun to get on, if she could come on, we'd see. I mean, I'll check it out. So you think she's still there at Johns Hopkins? Oh, yeah. She's an economist, very familiar with statistics, so I don't think there's any criticism of her method. And the people, it's another economics website that I think published the article, the censorship of Breant. We had a fellow on the other day, Ralph Moss, he's written four, five, six books on the politics and cancer incorporated, and he used to work for this big hospital in the Upper Midwest. Oh, the name's escaping me, a real premier cancer kind of place. It'll come to me. But he came across work with Laetrile many years ago, and was virtually ________________. uh his job because he to put that out uh and uh this yeah i i followed all of that in in detail did you and uh uh i would listen to the defenses of uh an indiana university professor whose name i forget and uh uh urnce junior uh the the promoter uh they switched substances uh in the middle of uh uh uh controversy uh uh i got some of what they said was laetriol uh uh the uh so the the whole thing uh was based on the theory of a very specific substance uh uh uh ending uh the name of it ends with uh uh glucuronide and what they began sending out because it was cheap was uh uh the similar molecule but ending in glucose and very different systems at work on the glucose and the glucuronide forms of the molecule and the glucuronide as theorized by Krebs senior it was tested in Israel by Dr. Rubens I don't remember his full name and found to be very effective but when they found that they could get away with selling the glucose form which is very cheap the glucuronide form is very expensive and so they the substance most people were getting was not at all laetriol it was a glucose form of the molecule wow that's fascinating and uh uh uh what was his name uh uh the researcher he mentioned uh uh uh Moss Moss yeah he was observing the actual effects of the real stuff and after that uh the most of the studies used only the false material including uh uh uh fairly early in 1968 what he sent me uh from Canada the producer was the glucose form not at all what I had intended to use in my experiment but it came without a label and it didn't didn't work at all like uh uh the actual laetriol should work and uh so a person at a college in Oregon uh uh had analyzed and found that it was not laetriol at all it was the glucose form and so I started putting out that information it didn't have the have the biological effect it should have on my mice and I couldn't see any reason why it would act like laetriol because it wasn't and as that information got around these two people were the main propagandists and listening to their presentation they carefully evaded the fact that the one that they were selling poisons the intestine incurably before it gets around to having any activity against the cancer so these people were uh creating a tendency for sepsis by poisoning the intestine and not even having a possible effect on the on the cancer itself. Oh man, oh fascinating. Dr. Ray Peete is here stay right there sir we're going to do a break. Patrick Timpone, I've just been notified we're having for some reason we have I don't know what's going on uh issues with the actual audio stream audio stream forget believe it or not and I don't know why that is um I don't know it's hard to tell you what's going on but we're recording it we have all that and you're going to have the whole recording of Dr. Peete uh I can see if I can do something here uh in the meantime but you can click on the video the front page and you can hear the audio there but we're working on it so sorry for the uh for the issue. Previously with Peter Ragnar who's a great example of staying young and healthy we asked him what kinds of things he takes. Personally for myself I look at all of the supplements that help bolster and harmonize my hormones and you know this is both for men and for women and when you go online there's so much information about that out there I have actually I've heard on one of your advertisements there Patrick about the Pine Pollen. I personally take Pine Pollen which is I think it's an amazing product uh has an amazing effect upon the body. Peter it's one of our favorites too Pine Pollen any of these are Thrival Links you have the Pine Pollen Pure Potency, Pine Pollen Gold and if you'd like to get it every month the auto ship is the best price. Also Stephen Buna's book exclusively on Pine Pollen is right there on the site too Daniel's site right here on OneRadioNetwork.com. Dr. Patrick Flanagan has been regarded as one of the most important scientists in the last 50 years we talked to him about sulfur. There's a product called organic sulfur and organic sulfur was put into trade in 1865 as organic sulfur. Some people call it MSM or methyl sulfonylmethane, but most of the MSM in health food stores have been contaminated with a kind of silica that prevents its absorption by the body. But anyway, what happens is that if you take a tablespoon of MSM and the organic sulfur in hot water in the morning and a tablespoon in the afternoon, it sulfates 192 different compounds, heavy metals from the periodic table and once it sulfates them, I'm talking about radioactive elements and other things, once it sulfates them, these sulfates cannot......stay in the human body for more than 12 hours. And what Dr. Flanagan just mentioned is one of the key reasons why our sulfur is different from most out there, Amazon, no matter where you go, because it's pure. Click an order, front page, oneradionetwork.com. Would you like a discount? Just email me, four pounds or more. A discount, patrick at oneradionetwork.com. Otherwise, two-pound orders, United States, Canada, worldwide, three prices. Click an order, oneradionetwork.com. A discount. Patrick? Nothing is more expensive than bad information. Know the source. oneradionetwork.com. Okay, well I just checked the play button on my computer and it's coming out there. So, I'm not sure what, uh... what's going on for some people. Don't know what to... I don't know what to tell you, but we have more than one, so something's going on. Ah, well, it's, uh, you know, life on planet Earth. We're with Dr. Ray Pete, who's, uh, uh, we're very proud to have him on, on, uh, once a month, on the third Monday of the month, that, uh, now we're doing it a little hour later, about, uh, 10-30, uh, central time. Uh, I'm sorry, 11-30 central time, and, uh, so if you have a question for him, uh, let me know if, um... If you can hear it okay through the play button, um, I don't know what's going on, but, uh, we'll just continue. Well... Do you, Dr. P, do you think, before we take some emails, do you... Wait a minute, I gotta get my, turn my microphone on. Okay, we're back here, uh, with you, thanks. So, Dr. P, do you think, um... In general, the thyroid thing that you're such a specialist, it's kind of one of the... On the top of the list that folks should really maybe pay attention to when they're not feeling as well as they can or... One of the important functions of thyroid is to lower the body's estrogen absolute content and its ratio to the androgens like DHEA and progesterone. And one of the important ways of getting rid of estrogen is to attach sulfuric acid to it. And so sulfation is probably the biggest single route of disposing of estrogen. But simply by keeping your body temperature up, all of the good effects of thyroid are likely to be activated. So even keeping your body warm artificially, avoiding chilling from extreme exposure and fatiguing amount of chilling, even artificial heating reduces some of the estrogenic effects. For example, the ears of a rabbit are much cooler than the core body temperature. And a researcher knowing of that, that the ovaries are somehow kept cooler than the adjoining body temperature tissues in a very short space, the temperature of the ovary can be a whole degree Celsius lower than the adjoining tissue. No one knows how that cooling, where the heat goes, but structural changes of water in the blood coming in, for example, are the only mechanism that I know that could account for that cooling. But anyway, this researcher aware of the low temperature of the ovaries and the low temperature of rabbit's ears injected some ovarian small pieces of the ovary tissue into the skin of the rabbit's ear. And those animals went into constant estrous, premature aging, but with an exaggerated constant level of estrogen production. So carefully avoiding a low body temperature is extremely important to keep a healthy balance of the hormones. Wow, wow, wow, wow. So bottom line for you, the TSH number along with your body temperature, those are two of the things you want our people can really look at and see. Yeah, some of the beliefs about pH were absolutely reversed when they were able to use MRI for measuring intracellular pH. I'm not sure of the following. Varberg's observation that all cancers produce lactic acid, people noticed that yes, all tumors have a high concentration of lactic acid and low pH, and so that led to the idea that baking soda, for example, has a high concentration of lactic acid. Raising the pH might help. Avoid or cure cancer, but it turns out that the intracellular pH of cancer is always higher and that should have been known way back in the 40s or 50s because when a cell forms lactic acid from pyruvic acid, it absorbs protein. And so raises the pH in the cell and the removal of lactic acid from the cell is exactly a removal of acid from the cell, making the cell less acidic, more alkaline. And it turns out that when you eat baking soda, it does alkalinize your blood, but the brain tissue in particular and muscle and other tissues are acidified by taking baking soda because the carbon dioxide component of the bicarbonate quickly enzymes convert bicarbonate to carbon dioxide in a gaseous form, which is soluble in cell material. So just by solubility, it tends to stay inside the cell, acidifying the cell. So if people were just more careful about doing their chemistry and observing what the enzymes are doing, all along they should have known that cancer was an intracellular alkaline shift, and baking soda, although alkaline in itself, turns to carbon dioxide and acidifies the cell. Very well. Well done. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone. It seems like the audio file is streaming okay now. I don't know what was going on, but we have the recording, so you're going to have the whole show with Dr. Peat, so not to worry. But if you have a question, Patrick at oneradionetwork.com, Patrick at oneradionetwork.com. This is from Kelly. I'm still a little confused on this whole coronavirus thing. Can Dr. Peat just give us a simple explanation of what he thinks is truly going on with this, with the deaths and the testing, in his opinion? What's known is that Fauci himself instructed all the testers. to use the PCR process running the cycle more than 40 times. Although it has been known that above 30 to 33 cycles it produces more and more false positives. The instruction went out all across the country to use a process. of testing known to produce an extreme excess of false positives. So right on the surface anyone should infer that they wanted to have as many apparent positive results as they could to justify that there was a pandemic. And now, if the vaccine comes into a fairly widespread use, all they have to do is......instruct the testers to properly use the test with maybe 30 or 32 cycles, and they will discover that the virus has disappeared. There are people out there right now, even WHO and other people, saying that just because you're vaccinated doesn't mean you can't get this thing or share it. The whole thing is such a mess. I think they have something like 40,000 pages of data about what their so-called vaccine has done. They've released a lot of data about what they've done, what they've done, what they've done, 400 pages, and an editor of BMJ, the British Medical Journal, Peter Doshi, I think is his name, he analyzed the data he could find that was released to the public, and from his calculation, and he's been working on vaccines, particularly for 10 years, his analysis showed that from 19 to 29 percent, according to Pfizer's data, were protected by the vaccine, not at all the 95 percent or 69 percent or whatever they announced publicly. But they don't want to release the full set of data because that would spoil the whole plan. The whole thing. Wow. Are you amazed that they've, whoever they are, been able to pull this thing off at such a grand global scale? After all your many years looking at the ins and outs of people in science and so-called science, is this surprising to you that they've been able to pull this off like this? A little bit, but I've been watching the whole education indoctrination process for 50 years and more, and they have created a gullible population, maybe at least 80%, I would guess, of absolutely gullible people when it comes to calling something science. Science totally failed to teach critical thinking, which really should begin in grade school. What it means when someone asserts that something is scientifically shown, and no one functionally seems to be thinking critically about what the government and the mass media are saying. Yeah. A real epidemic, I think, isn't it, from people that are just not thinking critically about any of this, and you say that's early on in the education is where that starts? Yeah, it fails to teach critical attitudes towards anything called scientific. Yeah. So it's no wonder politicians, I guess, and governors and mayors and whoever, that they just, they follow along with whatever CDC says, huh? Yeah, they were educated in the same way. In the same way. They're absolutely gullible when it comes to Fauci or someone else on television in a white coat saying something. And we're seeing a lot of reports now of this new improved strain. Have you seen this in the UK and other places? A new strain, right? A new one, stronger. Yeah, there's a website. I looked at it when they had 3,400 variations on the virus. Now, here they have about 6,000 variations. And how are they, even if there were only a few variations, how are they going to test to demonstrate that one is more infectious or more deadly than another one? No one is doing any statistical thinking at all regarding the claims of new strains. And I guess, Dr. P, with the massive control of the media, and almost all of it, right? And all the censorship going on, like, you know, just people that are questioning. We've been deleted from YouTube and Vimeo. You know, Facebook, they have a pretty good way of keeping this information with what they want. Yeah, just about 20 years ago, they were still subsidizing shipment of books and scholarly materials. The post office was helping to keep people informed. With the internet, it momentarily looked like this might be spreading information more widely. It went along with a plan to shut down the post office, take away its funding, make it run in debt, until finally it could be bought by UPS or another private service. And shifting everyone's communication to the internet, which was taken over by companies that were started with government, CIA, Pentagon subsidies. And now these corporations are acting as extensions of the military and CIA, so that when something embarrasses those people and their intentions, they disappear from the internet. Yes, I'm sure you've seen what happened with Amazon Web Services, Apple and Google, where they just wiped out Parler, which was a huge new kind of free platform. Just wiped them out. But we saw a story today where the CEO of Parler says they're going to be back up by the end of January. It's amazing to me that Amazon Web Services have that much power and juice and that you have to have these kind of servers to do this thing. That's a problem when things get in just too few hands, I guess. Here's an email for you, Dr. Ray Pete, by the way. It seems solid now, all the audio, so if you're listening, you want to have a question here, Patrick, at oneradionetwork.com. Carolyn wants to know if Dr. Ray Pete experiences chemtrails up in the Northwest where he lives, and she does in California, wants to know how we can get rid of these nanoparticles in our lungs. I've seen very few unusual trails sitting out in the yard. Yeah, we don't see much around here either, very, hardly ever, never. And there's no real cure for the particle exposure. I did a newsletter on nanoparticles, and they can even be absorbed through the skin, and they're being used in lots of fabric now as deodorants. Thanks. To kill microorganisms that produce odors and dirty clothes, but the ability to kill bacteria and fungus, these same particles can penetrate into the bloodstream and begin affecting our immune cells. So it's... important to be alert about the many sources, food additives, for example. Silica particles are probably one of the most common, which contain the deadly size range of particles. And you find silica and even... probably the majority of health food supplements added as lubricant to make the machinery run smoothly. And even when it's not on the label... Lots of those are in there, right? Yeah, there are Teflon particles used as... in a micro or nano form used as a machine lubricant that doesn't have to be listed on the label even though it gets into the food. Very affordable. Dr. Pete, it's every couple of months, right? Six, seven times a year? Six times a year. RayPete's newsletter at gmail.com and bone up on this stuff so you can take care of your stuff because, you know, there's some challenging times around so we're just doing everything we can to thrive during these challenging times and we're going to do it, we'll be fine. Stick around. We have a lot of good things to talk about this week. Dr. Exley tomorrow on aluminum, Judy Mikovich and the HIV Fauci thing and HIV, and Dr. Gabriel Cousins will be by on Thursday, and German New Medicine lady next week, and Dr. Jennifer Daniels next week. Thanks for having Dr. Pete on, says Benjamin. I'd like to ask him to again explain fructose intolerance, often called fructose malabsorption. Can it be fixed, and if so, how? Thanks for all your great work, Ben. He's in Pittsburgh. Fructose intolerance. It is a new way of defining gas and diarrhea indigestion problems, but it's usually just a bad microbial mix in the intestine. Most of our fructose, except in apples and apple juice. Which contain a fairly concentrated pure fructose. Most of our fructose comes in the form of sucrose or ordinary sugar. And it's very rare to lack the enzymes for absorbing those. They break down and each one can be absorbed, but if your microbial balance is out of control then the bacteria are likely to turn fructose into toxin and other bacterial toxins. And balancing the microbes, the main thing is to increase the metabolic rate of your intestine so that you can absorb the sugars high up in the intestine. Increase the metabolic rate of your intestines? How do you do that? Keeping your body temperature up. Keeping the body temperature up. And your thyroid. So that's back to the thyroid, right? So if we, just for fun, say if we're keeping our body temperature up by wearing warm clothing and exercising, does the body realize that is the same thing as having a happy thyroid or you can't fake it out like that? The quick acting component of the thyroid is suppressed by intense exercise because the glucose needed to produce T3 is being consumed by the muscles and it should bounce back an hour or two after the exercise. If your liver has stored enough glycogen, made when you had a little excess sugar, and to form glycogen that's stored in the liver, that's one of thyroid's basic functions. Selenium, thyroid, and a source of carbohydrate in the diet, you'll quickly replenish the liver. The glycogen, which you need to maintain a high metabolic rate, and with that high metabolic rate your intestines should have finished its digestion fairly high up. But the lower the general metabolism, the farther down undigested food will go. And in a very healthy person, maybe 10% of the population, the whole small intestine system is sterile. 10 or 20%, the microbes invade the small intestine in extreme cases, even into the stomach by raising the pH of the stomach. In the absence of thyroid, you can't make enough stomach acid. Wow, so the stomach acid is tied with thyroid too. Yeah, go ahead. So then that's that small intestinal bacterial overgrowth we hear about, SIBO. Yeah, and at an extreme the stomach becomes alkaline and bacteria such as H. pylori then thrive because they are alkaline-loving. And some people will even develop a brewery containing yeast all the way up into the stomach so that if they eat carbohydrate they'll have alcohol in their breath. That's all because of a very slow metabolic rate. So normalizing, optimizing your thyroid is going to give you a sterile stomach and small intestine. And the bacteria will live almost exclusively in the colon. Which is where we want it, right? Yeah. Which is, wow, then connecting the dots between a low thyroid and low stomach acid, I mean, who'd have thunk it, right? You could chase after that for years with giving HCL or other things or even apple cider vinegar. And would that just be symptomatic then even if you have a low thyroid to keep things going? Giving HCL or vinegar or you know stuff like that? Yeah they used to sell glass straws with actual hydrochloric acid for such things to sip it without dissolving your teeth. But what they sell now is usually betaine. Betaine right. And the butane itself seriously affects your cyanine metabolism, your methyl processes. And so it can have very unexpected side effects. You don't want to do that huh? Take HCL. Too much methyl addition going on. Dr. Ray Peete is with us. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Does Dr. Peete have any ideas actually of how I can get rid of sciatica? I've been to the chiropractor and I just haven't been able to make it go away. More than 100 years ago, I think approaching 200 years ago, a few doctors were curing sciatica almost always by using a good laxative fiber and purges. Because the colon, when it's very overloaded, stuffed, it becomes so heavy, especially over the left leg, but it can affect both. It becomes so heavy, it sits on the... and pressurize it. It damages by too much pressure the nerve conduction to the leg, and I've seen people do that, just take a few days of strong laxatives and a good fiber, and the leg pains disappear. Before we wrap it up with you, Dr. Ray Peat, we're live here January 18th, Dr. Chris Exley, probably the foremost authority on aluminum tomorrow at 10 o'clock, Judy Mikovitch Wednesday, Dr. Gabriel Cousins on Thursday about some spiritual stuff. We'd like to get a very, very nice... aloe product to help keep things moving. Boy, aloe is a very, very good thing to keep the colon clean and that. And you can get a fresh frozen aloe vera product on our website. You'll see it right there on the website. And it comes in frozen and you just throw it out and you pour it in a glass and put it back in the freezer and then throw it out some more. And that's how you do it and it's very, very good. There's no preservatives whatsoever. It's just been frozen. Probably the best way to do it other than have your own plant at home. And boy, it's very powerful. It tastes great and you can just slug it down. And I think the minimum of two and just look on the website for the aloe product there and I think you'll have a good experience with it. I order them two or three times. Not that it matters what I do, but I use a lot and it's just so magical for everything in your gut. It's 100% pure, fresh frozen aloe vera gel, stocked in aloe one, minimum of two and it's a wonderful, wonderful product. This conversation goes back seven years with Dr. Patrick Flanagan. Listen. And then I discovered that Hunza water also contain negative ionized hydrogen, which is a source of biological electrons. When we're young, we have enzymes in our body called dehydrogenase. And the purpose of dehydrogenase is to lift off hydrogen ions from the foods we eat. And their purpose is to create NADH, which is a chemical that acts as a shuttle in the mitochondria for producing all the energy in our body, adenosine triphosphate. And when people take this, it causes DNA repair. It heals the body from all kinds of oxygen free radicals. It also helps the body recover from damage from radiation. Well, we certainly want some of this stuff, right? Check out our AquaCure machine. AquaCure machine on oneradionetwork.com, lifetime warranty, and along with a lifetime warranty, a one-year, no-questions-asked, money-back guarantee, if you don't like your results, breathe the gas, bubble the water, listen to what Dr. Flanagan has to say about this and others. The AquaCure machine on oneradionetwork.com, use promo code ONERADIO, 10% discount. Indeed, this is one of the greatest, I mean, I would love breathing it. I'm working on my screenplay and book downstairs. Breathe a lot at night if I watch a film or read, and I just keep feeling better and better and better. I do a lot of good things because of advice from people like Adam Bergstrom and Dr. Ray Peed and others, but I think it is really key in my health improving with the anti-oxidation kind of thing. Check it out on our website oneradionetwork.com. From the Hill Country in Texas, this is oneradionetwork.com. Dr. Ray Peet, his website is Ray Peet, isn't it, let me see, what's your website, oh I got it right here, I'm sorry, raypeet.com, sometimes I get confused, raypeet.com, here's a good one, Nancy wants to know, Dr. Peet, does sugar always feed cancer? Uh, uh... Not always, but it's a preferred food, but the problem is that the body normally has trouble producing and delivering enough sugar to the tumor. In one experiment with a tumor isolated to the leg where they could control, put a huge amount of glucose into the artery feeding the tumor, they found that they could create so much lactic acid production by the tumor that it killed itself, a very, very high amount of glucose that took, which you couldn't do to the whole body. When the tumor experiences hypoglycemia internally, which it always does, low oxygen leads to the increased need for sugar. When the body experiences that, once the tumor becomes a self-sustaining, self-replicating, noticeable thing, that signals the whole body turns on the adrenal glands and starts converting our tissue proteins to glucose or amino acids. You're losing ground because when you can't provide enough glucose from either your food or your short glycogen then the body has to start feeding the tumor amino acids and the tumor can live very well perfectly on amino acids and on fat. When there's not enough glucose the tumor will thrive on pure amino acids and fatty acids. And so the worst thing you can do to accelerate death from a tumor is to starve the cancer for glucose. The worst thing you can do? Yeah. Yeah, wow. So, you know, since hanging around with you a little bit, I've not been nearly as, you know, uncomfortable about having some sugar. I have some organic beet sugar, Dr. Pete, that I use with maybe raw goat's milk. And I'll heat it up a little bit with the organic sugar, even at night. And I do fine sleeping. I wonder, so I thought about it, I wonder what the difference is when moms say, well, if you give kids candy before bed or they'll never sleep or the kids get all wound up on sugar, and why that's not affecting me like that. No, if they ate enough sugar, they would get wound down. Sugar is even a mild anesthetic for a baby. Getting injections and such, a dose of sucrose is demonstrably calming and actually stops the pain and it lowers adrenaline so it's actually not getting enough sugar that makes the kids get hyperactive. The immediate effect of the sugar is quietening. That's crazy. That's amazing. I'm sure the moms are listening now going, now wait a minute, come on. Could that be true? And something similar happens in diabetes. The definition of diabetes is that you can't use glucose. Right. And so the cells are starving for sugar. And in that state of starvation for sugar, they increase the stress hormones, cortisol and others, and start turning the body protein into glucose or using it as the amino acids and start burning fatty acids from storage. And that doesn't provide enough glucose to the cells because the cells have been, something is blocking their ability to use the glucose. So the traditional death from diabetes involved extremely rapid weight loss, eating your muscles and producing high sugar content of the urine. Even if you hadn't had any sugar for weeks, you would still be producing sugar in your urine at the expense of body tissue. And that was why diabetes was always quickly fatal. Fascinating. Wow. Two experimenters tried not depriving their patients of sugar. They called it the sugar disease, the saccharine disease. And so doctors thought if it's a sugar disease, they should not feed sugar. But that inevitably led to death by wasting. And two doctors decided, what's the point of restricting sugar? Why not let them have as much as they crave if they're going to die from converting their body to sugar? So they found that they craved about 12 ounces a day. And when they ate a normal diet and were allowed to have 12 ounces or so of purified ordinary white sugar in addition, their patients recovered quickly. Interesting. In general, if we're going to have, say, a piece of fish and a vegetable at night, is it helpful to also have a little bit of a carb or a potato or rice or something? Yeah, before bedtime, hot flashes, people have found a lot of carbohydrate. I think they used corn starch or rice or something like that. They found they could stop night sweats and hot flashes just by giving them a very big dose of carbohydrate. Carbohydrate. Have you ever heard about the idea of the rice diet where you just eat white rice, I think, until your illness goes away? Do you think there's anything to that? I mean, that's a whole thing out there. Yeah, I think it's closely related to what those two doctors demonstrated. Your body can have very high requirements for sugar when it's under stress. Oh, I see. If you really meet those high needs, you can turn off the stress and that ends the disease. Oh, because the person has kind of let go of whatever is kind of stressful and then the disease will kind of work itself out. Yeah. Dr. Pete, how do we stop the medical police state from taking over the world? Even Lelec gave up in 2002 saying it was not possible anymore. What do you think? What happened? Stopping the medical police state from taking over the world. It already has taken control, so it's a matter of working our way out of it. All kinds of dropout systems would be helpful. Dr. Pete, what do you suggest for someone on insulin because of diagnosed diabetes with ketoacidosis and high 150 fasting blood glucose? Adding carbs makes it higher. Should one continue with insulin while following your recommendations? A couple of people have done it half-heartedly. No one tried the 12 ounces a day thing because of fear of hyperglycemia in itself. And usually you will stop the acidosis and ketosis just by letting your blood sugar go higher than it's supposed to be. How can you tell if you need ACV, apple cider vinegar, or HCL? Those can help to acidify your stomach, but they are very unlikely to be the whole solution if you don't get your thyroid going. Is iodine deficiency the cause of the thinning of hair shaft? What can I do to thicken it? I'm a girl, vanity driven, and it drives me to be healthier. In the 1970s in the US there was a study of a large population and they found that almost all Americans were getting too much iodine from iodized salt and the use of iodized salt in preparing foods and so on. That would indicate that an excess of iodine nowadays for most people is the problem. An excess? Wow. I've got about 70 some references showing on big population studies that as little as half a milligram a day of added iodine or dietary iodine total was enough to cause long range cumulative deterioration of the thyroid gland. Oh, but all these people out there recommending iodine for hypothyroid people, right? I mean there's a lot of that going around. So, if we're using like a Celtic or, you know, those sea salt, like Celtic or one of those, there's enough iodine in there that's all we need? Yeah. Possibly more than enough. I haven't seen the exact amount, but definitely iodized salt, because of the other foods which now have it added, iodized salt is, in the United States and Europe at least, it's creating an excess. There are still places in central China and the Andes that are very deficient in iodine. Interesting. Ruth wants to know, can you please ask Dr. Pete what he thinks of strophanthesis, the herb for the heart. Do you know that one, Dr.? T-R-O-P-H-A-N-T-H-E-S Uh, say the word? Strophanthus? Strophanthus, S-T-R-O-P-H-A-N-T-H-E-S. I don't know what that is. My temperature is still a bit low, but I do not feel I have symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Should I be concerned about the high free T3 score? No. Part of the lab norm for T3 is because of the widespread use of things like pure T4 supplements, like synthroid, for example, L-cyroxine, or iodide supplementation. I think it's better to look at your TSH. It should be well below 1.0. Wow, well below that. So if your TSH was 1, 2, 3, or 4, would you keep taking something like a nature thyroid, which has all the T3s and T4s together until it gets down there? Yeah. And how long do you have to take it before you would recheck? I would check your temperature every day. Okay, but I mean as far as the lab, how long would you say, well, I'm on 60 milligrams and maybe I need 120. How long would you go before you tested the TSH? I would rely on symptoms and temperature. Symptoms and temperature, okay. Your heart rate should get up consistently to, I would say, at least 80 during the daytime, and your temperature should be at least 98.6. At least 98.6. Do you think that those thermometer things you put on your forehead, do you think they're accurate? I can't see how they could be accurate if the air temperature is, say, 40 degrees outside or 110 degrees. Your skin just... can't compensate. Just can't figure it out, huh? Yeah. Well, it's fast and easy. So you just get an old-fashioned, I guess, mercury thermometer. You can still find them, and they're the most accurate, I guess. Yeah, the most accurate, but a quick and easy thing is the eardrum thermometer. Oh, let me see. I don't know about those. So is that something you stick all the way in your ear? No, it's an infrared from the eardrum, and it has to be aimed just right. So you should take two or three readings at a time. How do you know if it's just right? I mean, when you're sticking it... it's just dark down there. Just try aiming it in different directions, and you'll see a certain feel will give you a repeated higher temperature. I'm sorry, I lost you there. A certain... A certain feeling. If it's aimed sideways, it's getting the canal temperature from the skin. And not the eardrum, right? Right. But the eardrum is very close to the brain temperature, and I've noticed that a different kind of mental activity will make either my right ear or the left ear hotter. That's great. Well, it's always something here. A couple more for you before we let you go. Dr. P, this is from Chris in Canada. What do you think of cooking in pressure cookers, like meat, for example? It doesn't generally taste very good. Yeah, it really doesn't, does it? Quick cooking at normal pressure, I think, is the best for taste and health. Yeah. Here's one for you. How can you tell if a underactive thyroid problem is specifically a conversion from T4 to T3 within the cell versus T4 production or transportation problem? Could this be a minor iodine or selenium deficiency easily remedied by adding these in micro amounts? Yeah, selenium, I think 100 micrograms is a safe supplement. And selenium is essential for the local production in the tissue, so it's always good to try that. But eating shellfish or seafood, halibut or cod or sole, for example, will provide enough selenium to keep your tissue supply active. I know you're not a big supplement fan, but so you say that we all could maybe benefit from 100 mgs of selenium? Very often, yeah, it's a safe amount. And then you like that progestes, right, that one, you think that's valuable, regularized? Yeah, that helps the thyroid in a variety of ways. Any other things regularly that people should think about? Enough carbohydrates in the diet is essential. Enough carbohydrates. Well, great, man, we like carbs, right? They're fun. Yeah, too much. Broder Barnes himself has demonstrated that a high meat protein intake can lead to high blood pressure, high blood sugar, and powerfully suppress the thyroid. Okay, finally, ask about the thyroid antibody test, please. Oh, yeah, what is that about thyroid antibody tests? The usual misunderstanding is that antibodies are just a strain causing the problem, but antibodies are a cleanup process. You can see the background in theory by Jamie Cunliffe and Polly Matzinger. They take a different approach to the immune system, and the real function, compatible with their theory, the real function of antibodies is to clean up damaged tissue. For example, iodine intake is one thing that damages the thyroid gland, and eventually you'll develop antibodies in the process of cleaning up damaged thyroid cells. So you'll show elevation of anti-thyroid antibodies. But, so, you're saying the conventional wisdom about the thyroid antibody test is the antibodies are supposed to be there and they're doing what they need to do. Yeah, and in the case of viral damage, for example, the antibodies are as much cleaning up the damaged tissue and in the process, they sort of accidentally destroy the virus that's causing it. But in their theories, the whole process of immunity is based on a clean-up maintenance system in which the so-called pathogen can get involved and be destroyed. And so that's the argument with Cowan and Kaufman and all these other folks that the viruses, these so-called viruses, so-called, we don't even know what to call them now, they're actually there cleaning things up. Well, it's our maintenance system which cleans up the viruses. A maintenance system cleans up the viruses. No matter what has caused the damage, malnutrition or whatever sensitizes the tissue and it starts falling apart, getting inflamed. We produce antibodies actually as a repair process for the damage and anything that has caused the damage will get caught up in the process and taken out with the debris. Anything that has caused the damage, which could be chemicals or, I don't know, stress or anything, right? Yeah, stress, malnutrition. Malnutrition. Well, that's the argument with Cowan and Kaufman and all these other folks that the viruses, well, Dr. Pete, thanks for being here today. It was fun having you. Thanks a lot. It's always an honor to talk to you and well, we'll just see how we move on forward with all this COVID thing and all the political stuff. But so you take care of yourself. Again, if you'd like to get Dr. Pete's newsletter, it's Ray Pete's, that's plural, newsletter at gmail.com. Ray Pete's newsletter at gmail.com. Again, Doc, thank you so much. Okay, thank you. Bye-bye. Dr. Ray Pete, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Okay. So we're just going to kind of focus on the audio, but even that we had an issue with this morning, which is strange, you know. You know, it's kind of a karmic thing, because we're just trying to understand the whole video thing and what we can do and if it's going to be worth it or not. I think Sharon and I are leaning more and more towards the idea that the important thing is to get the information and the words and the right questions for these guests, for you, so you can understand what's going on. I can do that. I'm pretty good at it. And that's more important than, you know, the video stuff. And so we're just going to kind of do it this way for a bit. We can put the guest on video. I'm just not going to, you know, get him... I don't even know what... If it even makes sense for me anymore to get on video, we don't even know where we can put these things. Most places are so dysfunctional now. They're just censoring. So we have our issues there and they're just working that out. So stay tuned. We're going to have better and better people all the time right here at One Radio Network. People you're not going to hear anywhere else, anywhere else, well, maybe, kind of, sort of, but good people and being presented with the right questions that you are interested in hearing. That's my job. So I love you all very much. Thank you. You did great today. Thanks for going through any kind of weird things we had going on with the audio. But the entire Ray Pete and Richard Massey show will be on there as an audio podcast real soon, sometime in a few hours later on today. So please pass on these links to everyone that you care about and we appreciate your ongoing support. Very important for us here at One Radio Network. So if you want to buy some stuff for your health and, you know, survival and hydrogen and things like that, check it out and we think we have some of the best. I just want to give a little plug here before I go, because I just noticed I hadn't talked about it. But this, this air purifier that I have that called the Air Doctor. This is really cool, folks. I mean, this is one of the best things I've ever. It's just great. It's about, let's see, it's a little bit bigger than a tower computer, not much bigger, a little taller, and it's very slim and sleek and well built. It's super quiet. And you put it on automatic and it just purifies everything in the house, right? Just keeps moving air through there. And I don't care what it is. So this is what's cool. This thing is about, oh, 25 feet, I think, or maybe 20 feet from my stove. And you can cook something, just pretty much anything. And you'll hear the little fan, since it's on auto, just go up a notch or two to get rid of whatever is coming out. And especially like if you do bacon and you get a little smoky thing going and bacon, man, this thing just kind of turns up and it cleans up all the little smoke and all the whatever. I mean, I like bacon smell, it's great. And then it goes back down. You just leave it on 24-7 on auto. It's very easy to change out the filters and it tells you when to do it. And you have to do it very often. It's one of the coolest and just amazing little thing. It gets rid of toxic ozone, volatile organic chemicals, gases. If you get kind of little things from the outside, maybe you're sensitive to pollen or mold or whatever, this is going to clear things up. And there could be things going on your home from outside that you just don't even know about. And this could do the deed. I think this whole deal I got, I bought a whole bunch. I think I bought a year's worth of a whole box of filters because they're cheaper when you buy them. I think it was like 450 bucks or something for the whole deal delivered. It's called the Air Doctor. I highly recommend it. It's a beautiful little unit. Just very pleased to have it around the house. I sent one up to Sharon for Christmas and she loves it. She said, man, this thing is really cool. Yeah, it's great. And if you're really having some health issues, I would put that puppy right in your bedroom. And maybe there is some mold going on. Maybe. Who knows? I mean, we don't know. Who knows? So this is cool. It's called the Air Doctor and it's on OneRadioNetwork.com. So if you've been looking or thinking about an air purifier, check it out. I think you'll find this one really, really great. And we use all the different things that we promote, so we're not going to sell you any dumb stuff. Just not going to do it. Very, very particular. We know the source. Alright, kids, I love you all very much. We'll see you tomorrow with Dr. Christopher Exley on Aluminum Num Num Num. He's one of the foremost experts. Happens at 10 o'clock tomorrow Central Time. We're starting at 10 pretty much every morning and we'll stream things. Judy Mikovich as well. Dr. Gabriel Cousins. German New Medicine next week with Dr. Jennifer Daniels. A lot of cool people coming up. I have a whole list of people that I want to get on. We'll stay on top of the whole political thing. We're going to stay on top of the whole COVID extravaganza. Who knows what they're going to do with this thing. The last we've heard, President-elect Joe Biden, if he's inaugurated on Wednesday, and there are many people saying that he ain't going to be, but that's another story. But if he is, then he's ready to roll out Green New Deal. But right away, a masking mandate, masking for the whole country, and so you just might want to go to our new website, it's called Just Say No to Joe. No, I'm just kidding. I tried to get that URL, Just Say No to Joe, and they wanted $400 for it. They're thinking ahead. I thought it'd be fun to have, because I don't care what this guy says. I'm not doing any of it, except pay my taxes. That's it. Otherwise, who cares? And then also, keep an eye on the whole gold and silver thing, because all this money, all this money that they're talking about... 1.9 trillion, right, COVID relief bill that they're going to run through, because they have the Senate now, they're going to run it through, probably the first week, 1.9 trillion, a very small amount of that is going to go to you, they're going to send you 1500 dollars to keep you quiet, but I don't know where all the rest of the money is going, you have to read the 5000 page bill, which nobody does, and all this money comes from the expansion of the money supply, that's the only place it comes from, the government is over 30 trillion dollars in debt, there's no money, they've got no money, they create treasury bonds, they borrow money from the Fed, or somebody else that's silly enough to loan them money at 1% interest for 10 years, which isn't even keeping up from inflation, so the likelihood of gold and silver going up in the next few years, if Mr. Biden is in there in the globalist, well he won't be there, it'll be Kamala, because Sleepy Joe will probably just go to sleep someday, and Kamala will be Kamala, she'll be running things, and God knows, you know, Green New Deal, all this stuff, trillions of dollars, so it all comes from the expansion of the money supply, that's where it comes from, where it comes from, and that's got to mean be bullish for gold and silver, antiques, old cars, anything that's real, some real estate, but you've got to be careful there, but anything that's real with a limited amount of stuff, that should go up in value when you increase the money supply, and they're going to do it, there's no way around it, there's no option, there's no doubt about it, with all this socialist stuff they're going to do, you know they're going to go to a universal basic income when they can, they're already raising the, they want to raise the minimum wage thing, which is going to drive more businesses out of business, because they can't do it, which is another one of their goals, is to drive more businesses out of business, they're going to bring in 10 million illegal aliens, and make them citizens, and they'll give them money, and they'll vote for them in the next, you know, four years from now, these people are out of control, they're socialists, they're communists, they're New World Order people, they're globalists, and this is what we're in store for, if Sleepy Joe is inaugurated on Wednesday, so we're going to have to get very creative, bat in the hatches, full steam ahead, and we'll be here to help keep it going. We'll be here to help keep your eye on the ball, so you can navigate and thrive during the coming......tremolous times with look likes we're going to get our share, but we'll be fine. Thank you for your ongoing support. I love you all very much. See you tomorrow at 10. You