 Broadcasting from the beautiful hill country in Texas, this is Juan, radionetwork.com. Well, a very pleasant good morning to you. Welcome back. Hope you enjoyed Dr. Massey. He's always fun, and likewise, always fun and informative, is our next guest. He's here on the third Monday of the month. At 11.30 Central is Dr. Ray Peet. He's been a nutritional counselor for a very long time. Ph.D. from the University of Oregon, specialization in physiology, and he wrote his dissertation in 72. He outlined his ideas on progesterone and the hormones closely related to it. His main thesis is that energy and structure are independent at every level. Energy and structure are independent at every level. That's a mouthful, Dr. Pete. Good morning. Good morning. Interdependent. Interdependent. So tell us what that means. I think St. George was one of the first people to point that out that with his studies of the rabbit heart, for example, there's a thing called the staircase effect where if you accelerate the stimulation of the heart, each beat gets bigger, so a tracing of it rises like a stair step. And he explains that the structure that governs the contraction builds up sort of the way that if your heart doesn't get a lot of blood to fill it very quickly, then it has a very weak beat and fails to make that staircase effect as it accelerates. That's typical of shock. And in the normal heart, if you need more blood, your heart will accelerate. But besides accelerating, each pump gets bigger because more blood is returning quickly to fill it. And in the healthy normal state, progesterone is essential for being able to build up that structure that allows it to beat harder rather than just faster. So the anti-shock effect on your heart is characteristic of progesterone. And it's very similar to the effects of DHEA and Digitalis or Digitoxin, the cardiac glycoside. So in a way, progesterone is our natural cardiac glycoside that allows us to build the structure that performs a strong beat. And under the influence of estrogen, like shock, the heart can't build the structure. And so when you stimulate it faster, it just has a weaker beat, if anything, as it goes faster. So it's possibly even a negative staircase under the influence of estrogen, which is preventing the building of structure in the tissue under the influence of energy expense. So that would be more like anxiety, would be a faster heart rate, but it's weaker. Yeah, anxiety borders on the shock state to some degree, like panic. Panic attack. Is that then estrogenic, high estrogen causes that and why? It's a whole range of physiological things that are analogous to estrogen. Lactic acid is the characteristic thing in panic attacks. The estrogen anti-stereo case action or pro-shock action involves the substitution of lactic acid for carbon dioxide. So carbon dioxide helps you to relax and restore your structures that guarantee performance. That's why breathing into a bag or not over-breathing helps with the anxiety or panic attacks, right? Yeah, and if you practice something like swimming as far as you can underwater, that gradually builds up the effect of retaining more carbon dioxide and having less anxiety. So anxiety is tied though with, it could be, as you say, a multitude of factors to be the causative for anxiety or fast heart rate or something. Thinking that motions could all be tied in together with even high estrogen, dietary-wise? Oh, most often it is. Yeah, low thyroid, high estrogen. Low thyroid, high estrogen, wow. So that's why when people are manipulating their little thyroid meds, they can feel it. If they got too much or too little, wow. Interesting. We were talking about it before. You've actually experimented with getting carbon dioxide and putting it in your bathtub and laying in there? A big plastic bag will do, but if you don't have a lot of breeze in your bathroom, then you can plug the drains with tape and fill it up and carefully get in. You can test the level of carbon dioxide by having a candle that you are just striking a match so you can see exactly where the surface of the carbon dioxide is. So you can actually take a candle, move it down the tub, and as soon as the candle goes out, that's where the carbon dioxide level is. Yeah, and for more than 100 years, people have described the effect. For example, one source said sitting in a tub of CO2 for an hour or so is like a day at the beach for feeling rejuvenated. Is that right? And have you done this before? Oh, yeah. Do you do it often? It's not very convenient to sit around in a plastic bag, but sometimes we watch TV while sitting in these giant bags. So you've made a bag so you put the carbon dioxide in a bag? Mm-hmm. You empty a big bag and then put the CO2, put a hose in the bag and fill it up so there's no air there, all pure CO2, and then carefully get in the bag without tipping the top and spilling the gas. So why doesn't the CO2 must then be heavy, and so that's why it stays where you put it? Yeah, much heavier than air. Have you done it in the bathtub as well? Mm-hmm. And it's just more user-friendly to deal with a bag rather than a bathtub? Yeah, because if there's a breeze, you lose the CO2 fairly quickly. Any kind of a breeze, wow. So it's not that heavy. I mean, heavy enough to withstand a breeze, right? Yeah. Like if there's a crack in the window, a little movement of air will cause turbulence and takes about ten minutes to empty a tub. Whoa. So you really have to be careful. And where do you get this CO2? Where do you get it? A welder shop, a tank that is possible to move very heavy, but a tank about two feet tall holds ten kilograms of it, and you can get several dozen bags full out of that. Wow. So if you just get a two-foot-tall CO2, you can get quite a few bags full in that. Yeah. It's something you can, if you're fairly strong, you can carry it from your carter to the house. Sure. Yeah. How much does it weigh about? Any idea? The metal tank probably weighs 30 pounds in itself, with ten kilos of gas. Fifty pounds, right? Yeah. And the alternative would be the huge things that you need a hand cart to move. Yeah. You could get a dolly and get it from your car. Wow. That's pretty interesting. So this bag, where do you get that? Is that like just a big trash bag? That'll do. Sometimes you can find one that reaches all the way to your neck, but armpits is good enough. Oh, so if you just get as high as you can. Have you ever seen where somebody actually makes these bags that you could purchase? I don't know who sells them, but we got some, for example, from a forest supply wholesaler that specializes in plastic wraps and such, but I'm not sure if they're reliable sources. I'll be. I bet you somebody could find one of those. I bet somebody makes one of those, you think? Oh, sure. There are people working on fairly elaborate things like a suit you can put on. Really? Wow. That's fascinating. A couple years ago, we talked to a fellow, and he kind of talked me into getting an oxygen tank and filling up a big, huge plastic thing, right? And then you put on a mask, and then you breathe oxygen while you exercise, but I kind of got rid of it pretty soon. I sent it back. It didn't feel right. That's not a good idea, right? Yeah, it kind of hurt your lungs to breathe high concentration oxygen. Wow. And a few hospitals make a carbon dioxide to oxygen mixture called Carbogen that was proven to be the proper way to resuscitate people and maintain people with breathing problems. But in 1955, a British government committee declared that when you're suffocating, adding carbon dioxide is the last thing you want to do. But in fact, it's essential for delivering oxygen to the tissues to have a certain amount of CO2 present. And so pure oxygen is just about the worst thing you can do. It first harms the lungs and then the brain. So when they put people on oxygen at the hospital, that's other than the very best thing for them. It's kind of the rule for something with a stroke. The reasoning is that like hyperventilating lowers your CO2. And in effect, you're making the stroke patient hyperventilate by giving them oxygen without CO2. And that shrinks, constricts the brain blood vessels and reduces circulation of the brain. Not good. That is not at all good for the brain, but the reasoning is that injury to the brain causes edema that causes increased pressure with all the problems. So they want to shrink the delivery of blood to the brain by getting CO2 that just isn't scientifically based, but it's like 99% of the hospitals in the U.S. still refuse to use Carbogen. Carbogen. So 99% of the hospitals, they refuse to use it or don't know about it, one or the other. Yeah, up until 1955, it was used everywhere practically. Wow. Then this ignorant declaration of the British Medical Committee spread around the world and hospitals swallowed it without evidence. Now there are a couple of groups in the U.S. showing that Carbogen protects the lungs, heals the lungs, protects the brain, all the organs, safely delivers oxygen to them, reduces edema. CO2, one of its obvious effects is to reduce edema. If, for example, you injure your hand or your lower leg, you can put it in a small plastic bag of CO2. In about an hour, you get pain relief and the elimination of the swelling and edema. Fascinating. So up until 1955, Carbogen was routinely used in the, you know, when they went to the hospital and then this British medical thing came out and then they just changed it, they just stopped doing it. Right. Wow. Right. Thank you. Man. There were several changes around 1960 where something that hospitals had been doing right seemed illogical, and someone said, no, that's going to hurt the patient rather than healing them as had been observed. For example, brain injury causes brain swelling, and it was found that quite a lot of extra urea added to their system, either orally or in the bloodstream, resolved the brain edema, and someone conceptualized that as an osmotic effect, and so they counted the number of molecules in a gram of urea, or previously isotonic salt solution, normal for the body fluids had been used with an added urea. So by number, it seemed to be hyper osmotic, and so people doing their arithmetic but not their science thought that using distilled water with the proper concentration of urea was proper not to use saline solution, and since urea is not an osmotically active molecule the way salt is, what it amounted to was giving an intravenous solution of distilled water, and that breaks your red blood cells and interrupts the delivery of oxygen. So after one or a few people miscalculated, didn't use the facts about urea, that convinced people that urea was going to cause breakdown of red blood cells and that stopped its use for brain swelling. But it could be used if it was used properly. Yeah, and it was used for heart failure patients, for example, and kept a failing heart working for years and years just taking it orally because of the anti-edema effect. Could that be an argument why some people advocate urine therapy, drinking some of your own pee in the morning? Yeah I'm sure that's part of it. Part of the misconception of what urea is, is the concept of uremic poisoning where your kidneys are failing, because they call it uremic. They think urea might be the cause of uremia. In fact, it's counterbalancing the toxic effect of intestinal toxins formed from breaking down foods, especially breaking down serotonin. It's intestinal toxins that accumulate in the uremia and poison the kidneys, but urea is an anti-edema, anti-inflammatory substance. How could that idea of urine therapy, just from your perspective, there's a lot of people that do it. I've drunk every morning for 20 years. I don't know why, why does it work? The kidneys aren't putting out waste material? Oh, sure they do, but they use healthy cows sometimes for the source of the urea. I think that's better than having a sick person drink their urine because a sick person is going to have the toxins from the intestines. Because when you're sick, you're trying to discharge toxins. Yeah, the liver detoxifies them and it leaves through the kidneys. As you probably know, all of these porta-potties around the world, they sell this urine. Really? Oh yeah, they sell it. I think it's Sandoz, S-A-N-D-O-Z. They sell it at Swiss Company. They sell it. They line it up and they put it in most face creams, right? Most face creams and cosmetics for women and all that, guys too, all have urine here, doesn't it? The bulk of urea on the market is chemically produced. Is it? Wow. Yeah, just ammonia and carbon dioxide combined to make urea. That's one of the functions of CO2 in the body is to combine with the toxic ammonia and eliminate it as a safe urea. It's eliminated as a safe urea, wow. That's what carbon dioxide does. Yeah, it detoxifies the ammonia. And then the CO2 can be retained with things like Buteco breathing and... Just not over-breathing, right? And retaining more CO2, right? Mm-hmm. Wow. I'm going to try that... I'm going to call around with some welding shops and they'll sell you or rent you the whole... the whole tank and everything. You just go pick it up? Yep. You take the empty one in and they give you a full one for... costs about $20. Oh, you probably have to buy the first one? Buy the first tank? Yeah, that's the idea, to spend $60 or whatever for having a tank of your own. A 10 kilo? You would get 10 kilo? Yeah. I think they often charge about $2 a kilogram. I think. Somebody wrote in and said, would a cadaver bag work for a CO2 bath? I think so. Experimenters at high altitudes had... I think it was like a cadaver bag, but zipped up and made a fairly tight seal that they would put them in the bag with oxygen at the high altitude. And the oxygen, they thought, was curing their altitude sickness. But being in the closed bag, they quickly filled up the bag with CO2 as they consumed oxygen. So someone just put some CO2 in a bag and found their cured mountain sickness. After that, lots of people going skiing at a high altitude would take a little hand-sized tank of CO2 with them and take a whiff when they started feeling altitude sick. Rather than oxygen? Rather than oxygen? Mm-hmm. It's the main therapeutic thing that prevents lung edema. Isn't that fascinating? That's amazing. The whole hospital thing is just, to me, just wow. Is it any wonder that once you go to the hospital, so many people just have a hard time getting out of there? Is it any wonder? Yeah, they're ruled by formulas that they don't understand how to apply in many cases. It's really pretty unusual when you find someone in the hospital who reasons properly rather than by rote formula. Mm-hmm. Here's an email from George. Patrick talks about in the Molecular Hydrogen Institute, they use hydrogen that he breathes for stroke patients. Does Dr. Pete know why that would be the case? It's anti-inflammatory. That's his number one thing, right? Anti-inflammatory. Mm-hmm. So a stroke is an inflammation process? Yeah. Immediately, when there's some injury to the brain, edema starts setting in and spreading the influence from the injured cells to healthy cells. And it can spread clot formation as well as inflammation. Wow. So it's important to cancel it quickly after a stroke using things like CO2 and aspirin and progesterone. And progesterone. So that's why, back to this progesterone idea, that's why you created a little product. I think it's Progest-Ease, and you just recommend a little dab of that every day, correct? Yeah. When a person is under some kind of stress, like aging, or if they've been unable to control their own estrogen levels, a combination of thyroid and progesterone will tend to correct the estrogen excess. The estrogen excess. Could that be similar to what this, what's that, how do you say it? Strophanthesis? That Dr. Cowan talks about? It's this climbing ivy out of, I think Brazil, for heart? Do you know the function of that? Yeah, that's... What do they call that? What's the name of that? Something, it's a plant, strophanthin. Yeah, strophanthin. Right, the plant. And it's similar to digitalis and progesterone in their effect. Similar kind of an idea, right? Mm-hmm. Here's an email. What are the details of carbon dioxide therapy? Where is the best place to buy or rent a CO2 tank? Does it take more than a regular bathtub plug to keep the CO2 from leaking? So, we covered a lot of that. You say you would just tape up the drain, right? Yeah, if you think you're going to stay in the tub for a long time and want to really save it, I will usually put a layer of tinfoil over the drains and then tape that down. It won't go at all through the tinfoil, but it will slowly go through tape. Kind of sneaky, but I hear you saying that the bag idea could be easier to work with. Yeah, a lot easier. So, we've just got to find a bag that may be up to your neck or something and just make sure it doesn't leak out. What keeps it from leaking out? Just tape? Keeping the opening of the bag higher than the bulk of the bag. Oh, so it works the same way. It's just not going to run out of there, right? Yeah, some people put a bungee cord around the top of the bag to tighten it. And how long do you sit in there? An hour, typically. And then you just let it go after that, huh? Yeah, when you are doing it just on one arm, for example, in 30 minutes to an hour, that arm becomes pink. It will keep its pinkness relative to the rest of your body for a few hours. Because all of the tissue becomes so saturated with CO2 that it remains for quite a while after you stop putting it in through the skin. But is this more than just an hour symptomatic thing feel good and a benefit? Is this CO2 going deep in there and helping long term? Yeah, there is fairly recent research in Japan using it to treat cancer of the mouth or places where you can deliver the gas. A very old book written in 1905 gives a history up until then of using it to treat various diseases, including cancer. Or they can apply it, for example, to the uterus or to the breast or any place that is accessible to flooding it with CO2. And for almost 200 years, people have been recognizing that natural carbon dioxide springs, for example, are therapeutic. And Priestley, the oxygen discoverer, was interested in the therapeutic effects of these naturally carbonated springs. And so he was working on carbonating water as a therapy. That was very influential and actually started the practice of carbonating water. First it was for medicine, but then people liked the flavor of it and so they kept doing it for just a pleasant drink. So in general, is carbonated water pretty good to drink? Oh yeah. If you take it gradually, so you don't burp it all out, it gets into your cells and acidifies a stressed cell. Under stress, the inside of a cell becomes relatively alkaline, where it should be slightly acidic. And replenishing the CO2 restores the natural acidity of all of your cells. And you can do that with baking soda. Same thing, you have to do it in stages. One person treated his cancer for years with two ounces of baking soda during the day, divided up in three or four tablespoons in a glass of water during the day. And in your body, the absorbed baking soda bicarbonate, the sodium is quickly eliminated by the kidneys. And that lets the bicarbonate equilibrate with the cells. Because if they're under stress, it turns into CO2 and acidifies the cell, for example, the cancer cell or the stressed cell. So that is why, who was the fellow, Dr. Pete, Simoncini in Italy, and he was using baking soda to go in and go after cancerous cells, right? Yeah, it actually works. And he was helping lots of people, but he was strangely saying that cancer is just a fungus. And that didn't go over well with this anti-adulteration. And so they watched him closely. He had lots of people he was treating. And when one of them died of their cancer, he was arrested and imprisoned. If you did that with every person treating cancer, you'd have hundreds of American doctors in prison. They put him in prison, Dr. Pete? Yep. Yeah, we interviewed him years ago. It's still on our website somewhere, the show, if you'd like to look it up. Simoncini, and we call him in Italy. Interesting fellow. Do you know, is he still in prison, or did he ever get out? No, he was sentenced to five years, but I don't know how much he actually served. Then a second patient died, and they took away his license. It'd probably be a good interview now, right, to see what's going on? Oh, it would. Yeah, I'll check him out, see if I can find him again. Dr. Pete, stay right there. Ray Pete, Patrick Timpone, One Radio. Boy, what a strange world we're living in, huh? How many people must die of cancer and they blame it? If you'd like to get Dr. Pete's newsletter, it's a great one. Not very expensive at all. It's very inexpensive. Comes out every other month and it's Ray Pete's Newsletter, Ray Pete's plural newsletter, at gmail.com. Ray Pete's Newsletter at gmail.com. We have this little guy on sale right now and Ray Pete's on the 800 line. So just to use email, if you'd like to give them a question, Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. One of the very first things I do in the morning is come sit at my meditation chair and that's when I take my dual extracted mushrooms from Surthrival, the Chaga and the Reishi. Both of these mushrooms are immunomodulators. If you had too strong of an immune system, like autoimmunity, it'll help to down regulate and calm the immune system. If you have too weak of an immune system, like an immunodeficiency, they help to up regulate or strengthen your immune system. So whatever you're dealing with, they help to bring your immune system to balance. In addition to being immunomodulators and adaptogens, Chaga is probably best known for its extremely high ORAC value or antioxidant content. It scavenges the body of free radicals. And Reishi has a long history being used in conjunction with meditation and for reaching higher states of consciousness. And that's why I like to take these right before my meditation. There's a lot of medicinal mushroom supplements on the market to choose from. But most are made with cheaply produced mushrooms grown on grain and either ground up and put in capsules or extracted in non-organic alcohol. Surthrival does it differently. We use wild harvested chaga and organic certified wood grown reishi fruit bodies, not the mycelial extract. And then we use an organic alcohol and a hot water extraction method and then recombine so you get the full benefits of these extremely high quality mushrooms. these are really really great products and it's a wonderful little sale we got going on right now if you'd like to take advantage of 15% off code is promo code is 4 to 5 15 F O R T I F Y 15 4 to 5 15 and that is 15% off on all the Shaga and the Reishi and we're going to tell you just a little bit more about it because it's a great sale Daniel Vitalis talks about his two premier medicinal mushroom products Shaga and Reishi because Reishi and Shaga are considered not just adaptogens but they're also considered immunomodulators they're safe for daily consumption for a lifetime there's a lot of herbs as you know Patrick a lot of herbs are not that way so many medicinal herbs are meant to be used for short periods of time but there are those few that can be used daily forever and medicinal mushrooms are that way so these would be called the tonic tonic herbs they're essentially tonic but if we wanted to get even more specific they're adaptogenic. I feel like we've set a new standard and it's gonna we raise the bar but uh but check it out see where the bar has been risen to you can learn more about these great medicinal mushroom products on Daniel's site tonic herbs adaptogens dual extraction fruit bodies and their tonics it can be used every day modulates the immune system shaga and rishi special myron glass from sir thrival on one radio network.com and you can be assured these are the real thing the fruited bodies like we say and daniel goes to great lengths to make sure you're going to really get the mojo you know what i mean that uh uh from these and there's a lot of products out there uh vying for your dollars so uh give it a give it a shot i think you'll like it uh get one of each and see what you think 15 off right now code is fortify 15 15 off from any survival links we believe by experience and the literature to back it up that distilled water bubbled with hydrogen is a very good way to go george wiseman is an authority on hydrogen 98 of my fluid intake of all beverages have been distilled water that's been bubbled with the browns gas i am now younger biologically than i was back then this is why i'm saying that a lot of what happens with spring water for example is you get not only you might get the hydrogen but you'll get minerals that are not necessarily bioavailable a lot of places has excess calcium for example it ends up with calcium deposits in the body because you're getting too much calcium even if it is bioavailable now that i've been inhaling the hydrogen i find that i get my major nutrition which is the hydrogen calorie free so i was able to lose a few extra pounds the cells won't regenerate you won't have stem cells and that sort of thing if you haven't got enough hydrogen your cells have a certain life and they're shutting down if they're not getting their hydrogen they're literally dehydrating that's where the word comes from dehydrate oh go figure dehydration huh which is dehydrogen exactly whoa maybe you'd like to eat a little less food and stay hydrated and we know how important hydration is it's like key the aqua q machine bubbles hydrogen gas in your water and also breathe it in your body 10 off now i'm going to interrupt you patrick because we have 20 off i think you're going to like this technology i've had it for a couple of years i breathe it often throughout the day as i work on my screenwriting downstairs i can do my exercises and lift weights or chin-ups or hang or uh jump on the trampoline my little rebounder breathe the hydrogen and then i've been bubbling the water a lot more since we had george on last week and i have to tell you uh you can feel you know i i just fell off the wagon as far as drinking the water but you can feel the hydration effects something just really good about it especially about 30 minutes before you reach uh for digestion i can i'm just digesting my i guess it's just helping the stomach acid thing to do its thing i'm not sure that's what george said check it out uh promo code one radio for 20 off 20 off right now on the aquacare browns gas hydrogen machine um he thinks he has one of the best ones at the market because he has safety features that not too many of them have or hardly any of them have and hydrants is a very uh volatile not volatile and that's not a good word but it's very powerful gas i mean they can do hydrogen buses and hydrogen bombs for that matter so it's a it's a very prolific molecule on both sides of the periodic table but you got to be careful with it and that's why george's machines are very safe and i'm very confident that i use it and he has all the the different safety features if you get low or high it just turns off so it's pretty cool uh hydrogen browns gas promo code one radio for 20 off right now on on the front page of one radio network.com the broadcasting from the beautiful hill country in texas this is one radionetwork.com well we have the honor of talking with doctor ray pete every third wednesday doctor pete thank you so much for coming on the show we deeply appreciate your time thank you okay i wanted to mention that the newsletter has changed to uh... quarterly instead of uh... okay bi-monthly so uh... now there are four uh... issues instead of six per year but the subscription uh... can still be for twelve issues now it uh... takes three years to get twelve issues and what is the subscription cost uh... pretty close to what it was uh... i'm not sure because we have just changed but uh... it's something like uh... thirty... thirty dollars probably for a 12-discharge that's perfect god love you that's great and it's just... and that's correct, right? raypeatsnewsletter at gmail dot com mhm yeah, somebody sent me this Lynn, who takes our notes, 2018 he received a Simoncini, a five-year jail sentence culpable manslaughter of cancer patient, wow then in eighteen uh... that's what... got two years... oh and his assistant radiologist Romberto Gandini got two years in jail both were found guilty of manslaughter that's really something well, so let's see if I can get my mouse to work here. Doc, let's see if we can go to some some emails. Okay. Oh, I wanted to mention this and get your take on it. Adam Bergstrom, who's a big fan of yours and and he kind of got turned on orange juice from you long ago and he's on our show regularly. He lives out in California. He said that the orange juice thing just kind of cures his edema. It just just went away. What's up with that? Yeah, orange juice is one of the most available and pleasant to use sources of the flavonoids. Coffee and purple grape juice are other good sources, but for quantity use, orange juice contains a great variety of the anti-inflammatory flavonoids. So the flavonoids, but and coffee actually has it as well. Yeah, quercetin is a major flavonoid, but there's several minor ones in coffee. Mm hmm. Well, that's really... really something. And orange juice. Tastes great. I mean, holy cow, right? Yeah, did you ever hear of Johanna Brandt's Grape Cure? She wrote a little book about six years ago. And the purple grapes are an extremely good source of flavonoids. And people actually did, didn't they call it the grape-chewer cure-doc or something like that? Yeah, but some of the institutionalized places charged horrible amounts and gave them watered-down grape juice. They essentially were putting them on a semi-fast and collecting their money. Yeah, I guess now these days you can get organic grape juice. Even Welch's has an organic variety these days. Yeah, yeah. Orange juice for daily use is, for drinking a quantity of it, it's more pleasant for a lot of people. Sure. Here's an email for Dr. Pete from Phil. He's in London. Dr. Pete, you recommended button mushrooms on one of Patrick's shows. What are your thoughts on other mushrooms like shiitake or oyster mushrooms? Oh, oysters are my favorite. Oyster mushrooms, they're good, aren't they? Yeah. Shiitakes? I don't think I've enjoyed them. I think I tried them once, but if they taste good and they're well cooked, I think they're all going to have some benefits. And so most mushrooms, if they're well cooked, are beneficial for us? Yeah. Most mushrooms. Can you please ask Dr. Pete this? Oh, white blood cell count in the blood could be the cause of, and she'd like to increase the white blood cell count. It's usually a sign of stress or infection, but in an extreme depleted condition I suppose it's your... You can actually have too few white blood cells, but general nutrition and anti-inflammatory conditions tend to normalize either high or low white blood cells. Here's an email from Lily. She has what's been diagnosed as dysmenorrhea. She's 45 and she vomits, has the shakes, sweats, and severe menstrual cramping. And this has been going on for a long time. No gynecologist understands it. They all say I produce too much progesterone. Is this true cause of it? They put me on a pill when I was 25. I was on the pill for over 10 years. I've been off the pill since 18, but every month I eat Advil like it's candy. I want to have normal menstrual periods and get off the ibuprofen. Any ideas Dr. Pete has? Wow. I think actually aspirin is in the long run safer than ibuprofen, although anything anti-inflammatory helps. But hypothyroidism is the main cause for dysmenorrhea, leading to high estrogen and relatively low progesterone and prolonged bleeding. I've known women who have been hemorrhaging for three weeks or longer, very heavy bleeding, who were able to turn off menorrhea just with frequent doses of T3 triiodothyronine, the quickly active thyroid. And it's fairly well recognized that it goes with high prolactin, high estrogen, and low thyroid and low progesterone. So Lily, you're suggesting she look at her thyroid carefully, make sure her TSH is like 0.5 or below? Yeah, and checking body temperature and pulse rate. And for a woman her age, she's 45, good pulse rate would be in the neighborhood of? It should be in the 70s when waking up and then during normal daily activity in the 80s. Different for guys? How's that? Different for men? Oh, not very different, but women have smaller hearts generally and so slightly faster pulse. Dr. Pete, do you know of any bad effects from taking Cascara Sagrada? What are the benefits? Thank you. If it hasn't been properly aged, it causes overstimulation, irritation, cramping, considerable pain. But when it's very well aged and is darker than chocolate, approaching the dark roast coffee color, then it doesn't have that stimulating cramping effect. What it does is reduce inflammation and increase the flow of water through the intestine to soften the stool or prevent over dehydration of the stool. And the FDA several years ago took it off the market as a laxative. At that time, the pharmaceutical industry was investigating it, discovering that its main active ingredient, Imodin, was very promising as a cancer treatment. But the FDA used the excuse of calling it a possible carcinogen to take it off the market because they wanted to promote a pharmaceutical they thought better equivalent, except it turned out that the maximum safe, so-called safe use period was only five or six months. And at the end of that time, they said then you have to find some other laxative, but they had taken Cascara off the market, so the real alternative didn't exist. And it turned out that very quickly they took this new laxative, a proprietary chemical, off the market because it was causing deaths of the colon. Death of the colon? Yeah, it reduced the blood supply to the colon by increasing serotonin. The serotonin was causing increased spastic-type stimulation that would force the bowel to move for a while, but then it was creating chronic irritation and deprivation of oxygen to the intestine, so they had to have their colons removed. Oh my goodness, oh my goodness. So I suspect then if one is a good researcher, they could find a Cascara sagrada that is well-aged. You just have to figure it, find it, right? Yeah, and the whole ploy calling it a potential carcinogen really was motivated by the urge to sell something that turned out to be really deadly. Wow, wow. Now something like Cascara sagrada, or some people use, well let's just do that one. Would one be at risk to become totally dependent on that, or would it just be used now and then? Yeah, while using it to prevent all of the constipation symptoms and reduce inflammation, then you can figure out what is wrong with the foods that you're eating that are causing the inflammation and constipation. I see. So use it as a medicine and not something you take every day. Yeah, although people have taken it every day for decades, and the first argument was that there might be something wrong with it, because pranic laxative users had brown pigmented colons. But doing the study properly, it turns out that constipation and irritation caused the pigmented colon, and proper use of the laxatives would be reducing the irritation and formation of the brown pigment. But that was just part of the, basically the pharmaceutical FDA campaign against natural substances. So in your opinion, after all these years, what would be like the number one cause behind constipation, which is kind of like an epidemic in our culture? Slow digestion makes every food a potential. So it starts in the stomach if you're not really digesting the food, right? And hypothyroidism is the main cause of a sluggish digestion. Low thyroid will cause the acid to get messed up and you don't digest well? Yes, slow down of all of the digestive secretions and of parasulces. And so simply adding a bulk fiber to your diet, if it isn't something that can be converted into gas by bacteria, if it's a really indigestible fiber, that will stimulate the parasulces, that will eliminate estrogen and other toxic irritants, and that will tend to increase thyroid function, because estrogen is a blocker of thyroid. And what would be your favorite, kind of, to take a supplemental fiber if you wanted to take one to our listeners? For many years I was recommending a daily carrot, especially grated with a little bit of vinegar and salt and olive oil. But that easily becomes very tiresome, and so I looked around and found that bamboo shoots are very, you can put cheese sauce on them and make them a very early tasty dish. And mushrooms, well-cooked mushrooms are another functional bulk provider with a slight antibiotic action. How do you find bamboo shoots? Are they raw, like in produce or at Japanese stores? Yeah, in some Asian stores they will be available raw, but they have to be cooked. And you can buy them in huge cans at a good price. I've seen a can that in our Asian store sells for $2.50, 20 ounces or something like that. Some places want to charge $25 for it, but it should be a very cheap food. And you would just eat some of it out of the can and then put it in the fridge and then eat the rest of it, that kind of thing? Yeah, it's good, I think, to boil them a little in case the can was leeching chemicals. What's that one kind of fiber that so many people take and the name's escaping me right now? Pure cellulose. There was a product sold for weight loss and diet control and it was called AIDS, which was basically really fairly pure cellulose. But with the appearance of the disease AIDS, they had to either change their name or went out of business. What's your opinion of, you can get organic psyllium husks, what's that? They work for most people, but you have to be watchful if you really have an inflamed intestine. Some people find that the mass of the husk, instead of holding water, the husk itself or the gel becomes dehydrated and turns into a roping material that makes the problem worse. Oh, so you've got to be careful with that one, but you like the cascara sagrata because it holds the water. It causes the intestine to secrete more water. Here's an email from Rachel for Ray Pete on this 21 February day as we are live here, Patrick at oneradionetwork.com. We are going to have Mike Stone on tomorrow. Mike Stone was recommended by Dr. Cowan. Mike Stone, his website is amazing with the work that he's done with the work in virology and showing what this whole germ thing is about. So we're excited to have him on. That'll be tomorrow at 10 o'clock. I recently started taking Progesterol, writes Rachel. Could you please ask Dr. Pete if it is anabolic for females or if I should be concerned about losing muscle because of its effects on testosterone? Also, is it true that if the dose is too low it reverts to becoming estrogen at a higher dose it's initially required? No, in humans it doesn't turn to estrogen. It does not? No, its product can be glucocorticoids like cortisol or aldosterone, but since its effect is antagonistic to cortisol and to aldosterone, you can't increase your corticoid effect by eating more progesterone. In fact, it's a partial antidote to those and to the stress in general, and it antagonizes estrogen's ability to increase your cortisol and aldosterone. I see. And it's anti- Catabolic is the effect the studies on animals have found. It is neither pro-catabolic nor pro-anabolic. Thyroid itself is muscle anabolic, but progesterone, its action is mainly by preventing excessive action of estrogen and cortisol. And both of those are antagonistic to good muscle development. But the progesterone, if I hear you correctly, is neutral as far as muscles? Yeah, as far as the animal studies can find. Sure. Her second question is, does T3 increase histamine levels? No, it's basically protective against all kinds of inflammation. I see. Okay. All kinds. For example, overactive bladder involves estrogen and mast cells producing histamine, and combining aspirin and or antihistamine with thyroid supplement will take care of the overactive bladder. Again, a little aspirin and what? Say it again. A little aspirin and what for overactive bladder? Oh, antihistamines and thyroid. Antihistamines. Can you get a real good antihistamine over-the-counter, natural that you could use for that to get the bladder not so overactive? Pretty much the FDA has taken care of all of the most useful natural drugs, getting them off the market, so bad imitations can come on from the pharmaceutical industry. You had mentioned a pharmaceutical won't show an antihistamine that you like. Do you recall? Oh, ciproheptadine. Yeah, ciproheptadine. That's pretty safe. Yeah. I've known people who went up to 28 milligrams a day for the normal doses, 2 to 4, and took that for a few weeks and were cured from their, for example, dysmenorrhea and hemorrhaging and didn't need to keep taking it. But I suppose there's some extremely high dose that will, for example, turn off your urinating ability. So kids who have taken a gigantic overdose of ciproheptadine sometimes have to be catheterized to get the urine out. Wow. So is this ciproheptadine and aspirin totally symptomatic for an overactive bladder or will it help the body to get back normal? It gradually helps the body to, it takes quite a while to eliminate the mast cells that were attracted by the estrogen, but if you cure the symptoms for a while, your thyroid and progesterone will tend to prevent their activation. So that's the initial cause of the overactive bladder, which many people have is too high of estrogen. Yeah, leading to a high concentration of mast cells. Mast cells, wow. And too high estrogen, if I keep following this black hole, I'll keep going down this rabbit hole, too high estrogen, the main cause? Yeah, it attracts mast cells, progesterone inhibits them. And what causes the estrogen to be too high, generally? Hypothyroidism. I went back to thyroid again. And the polyunsaturated fatty acids have intrinsic estrogen effects in themselves and also block thyroid very specifically. And so the PUFA in at least two different ways increases the action of estrogen while decreasing thyroid. Can you tell what the PUFA, there must be some place online to tell the PUFA content of various oils? Oh yeah, you can just look up fatty acid composition of different foods. I see. And does any PUFA not just stay away from it or low or what's your, you know? Yeah, since the food oil industry tried to convert the population to eating stuff that they had been selling for making paint because of the petroleum innovation of making paint more cheaply, the seed oil industry dug up defunct science of George Brewer whose claim that the PUFA are essential fatty acids, that they revived that even after it had been many times disproved 20 years after it was disproved, they convinced the public that the PUFA is an essential nutrient. And contrary to all of the evidence since the 1930s, they have convinced the public that the PUFA is a nutrient rather than a hormone disrupter. And it just isn't, it's a hormone disrupter. And again, so if I'm clear, any PUFA you just stay away from, even low, low on some oils? Yeah, small amounts that you can handle unless you're overeating in general. And when you overeat in general, PUFA tends to be the part that gets stored to gradually increase your body PUFA content. I see. Hi, Patrick. Would you ask Dr. Pete what is the cure for, let me spell it for you, U-R-T-I-C-A-R-I-A and geodema? I am struggling with it for a couple of months now for the second time in the past six months. That's another thing involving concentrated mast cells and activating them. For example, low blood sugar will activate them. Many irritants, things that cause a drop in blood sugar will activate the mast cells that secrete histamine and serotonin and cause edema. Again, these mast cells do their thing, right? Yeah, so antihistamines are the first treatment. Could you please ask Dr. Pete if he has any suggestions for eliminating cataracts that does not involve surgery? No, basically preventing them involves things like keeping your PUFA intake low. But once they're formed, the disappearance is very slow. A few people I've known just by changing their way of living who had beginning cataracts when they were in their 60s, by their 70s, had no detectable cataracts. So very good living conditions can very slowly cause them to fade away. I see. Rhonda wants to know, she says, I've been reading that taking a bath in 3% hydrogen peroxide and magnesium flakes is a good pain relief remedy. Can you ask Dr. Pete if he knows if this would be a reasonable thing to do? No, it's very bad for your skin to stay very long in contact with that concentration of hydrogen peroxide. I see. Not good. Can Dr. Pete please discuss the pros and cons of using DMSO and also MMS, chlorine dioxide? They both have potential problems. The DMSO got famous when it was used for treating arthritis pain. And it can activate the respiratory process and help to eliminate water from tissues. But too much of the sulfur compounds can very easily lead to disturbance of your thyroid function. This is from Emily. I've been taking the sulfur that Patrick promotes and I like it, but now I'm seven months pregnant. Can I still keep taking sulfur? This is just pure sulfur. What do you think, Doc? Oh, flowers of sulfur. That's different, right? That's different. Yeah, it's a very safe thing to take. Just a pinch of it, two or three hundred milligrams orally will help to suppress the candida and other fungus development without causing any noticeable change in the person. But the sulfur that she has, can you comment if this is okay if she's pregnant? I told her I didn't know and I would ask you if she emailed me. That very small amount, if you have a candida problem, it will improve clear out the candida and then doesn't have to be used continuously. But it's very good and safe for getting rid of the fungus. The fungus. But if she wants to take it on going like a lot of people do for detoxification, that could be an issue with When you're pregnant, could it? It hasn't, there's no evidence that it's harmful, but I think it's best to minimize all kinds of treatments when you're pregnant. Yeah, to be careful. Here's something. I have constant mucus, writes an emailer, one side of my throat. If I push my finger into my throat near the clavicle and swallow, it helps. I drink very little milk and it makes it worse. Even though it's from a local grass fed cow, I eat a little cheese, eat a pretty clean diet. Do you have any ideas on how to clear this clogging feeling of the mucus? Sometimes a swollen thyroid gland causes all kinds of swallowing discomfort and difficulty. So I would check, have a doctor check for any swelling of the gland and any elevation of TSH. Mm-hmm. MK wants to know if Dr. P could talk about premenstrual dysmorphic disorder. Apparently it can happen to younger women in the luteal phase, L-U-T-E-A-L phase of the menstrual cycle. And... Abnormal reaction to progesterone? Was it dysphoric or dysmorphic? Dysmorphic. Dysmorphic. The usual thing is dysphoric, meaning basically premenstrual syndrome, but the dysmorphic thing that some women have is misperceiving the amount of fat in their belly and the feeling that their body shape isn't right and so they feel they have to diet even when it isn't objectively abnormal. Mm-hmm. Somebody, Emmett, wants to know the difference between pig thyroid or the prescription kind. Oh, most of the prescription kind has been historically from pigs, but the armor company used beef and or pork thyroid and they were both identical in function. But the standard thing that American medicine has moved to is to say don't take anything with T3 in it. Take only synthetic thyroxine and that works fine for most young men, but for very few women it's appropriate because the estrogen blocks the ability to convert T4 to the active form of the hormone T3. So the thyroid that the conventional MD prescribes is okay? No, it's likely to be thyroxine. And so what kind could you get prescribed? What would you ask for? The last of the fairly reliable desiccated thyroid is armor. By chance you might come across one of the natural desiccated products that is well standardized, but it's a fairly random thing now. Wow. There's only one well-balanced product I know of, Seno Plus, which was a synthetic imitation of the old armor product. There are others containing both T3 and T4, but the balance is best in Seno Plus. Novoteral, it's a good product that has a little more T4 in relation to the T3. And the Seno Plus? And you like a little more T4 than the T3? Yeah, a good ratio is three or four to one, T4 to T3. And the Seno Plus, would that be the closest thing to a natural kind of piggy, a desiccated pig? Yeah, it's the closest thing to the traditional armor. And the Seno Plus, if I recall, the only place you can get that, can you get that in the United States or do we have to go to Mexico? Yeah, Mexican drugstores such as Farmacias Del Nino dot MX. Farmacio Del Nino, you can get Seno Plus. And would that be the same kind of dosage as the other similar? The pills come in a potency that's a little more than two grains equivalent of armor. Okay. So, it's good to start with one-eighth of a tablet, which is a quarter grain. And just kind of work your way up, huh? Mm-hmm. Interesting. Teresa, can you get too much progesterone and what symptoms would you have? I'm supplementing with progesterone in a couple of different forms, progesterone and a prescribed form. Oh, in vitamin E, it actually gets into your bloodstream through the digestive system. And too much of it will put you to sleep. And so, it shouldn't be combined with opiates, for example. Too much of the progesterone? Yeah, because it's a sedative. The normal rise during pregnancy should become the anesthetic for childbirth. When progesterone is high enough in relation to estrogen, delivery is without pain. They used to call it the chemical midwife. Interesting. Can you use progesterone for sleep insomnia? Oh, yes. I knew one woman who used a half a teaspoon of the progesterone every night to go to sleep. Is that safe? I don't recommend it because it might make you so drunk you stumble on the way to the bathroom or something. Really? It gets you that kind of loopy, huh? But you could experiment with it and maybe help sleep? Yeah, I accidentally overdosed, probably got close to a thousand milligrams of progesterone. It was in a margarita by accident and I first noticed that I couldn't tell where my hands were and then I couldn't tell where my feet were unless I looked at them. That's great. Here's somebody who wants to know about the long-term effects of ivermectin. It's safe if you follow the traditional anti-worm doses of just a few milligrams on one or two days periodically, but it's definitely not something to take every day preventively. Rachel has recently added another T3 to my synthroid. My body shuts down conversion from T4 to T3 during synthetic ingestion. Should you still take T4 even if your liver is ineffective at converting to T3? The other tissues have some ability to do the conversion if that isn't blocked too by estrogen and PUFA. So you do get some effect even if your liver is malfunctioning. I see. Wow. Here's a 68-year-old male, bicycle, no booze, good weight, having wild arrhythmias for the past few weeks. Wow. Taking magnesium and bio BC complex. What can I do to get heartbeat back to normal without drugs? What is wrong with his heart rate? It's arrhythmias. Arrhythmias. He's getting arrhythmias. Oh. The low progesterone, high estrogen is one of the things like St. George showed. But low thyroid leading to high adrenaline is a very common cause. And the clotting system tends to become overactive with hypothyroidism. And doctors are very afraid to prescribe thyroid for various kinds of arrhythmia, because it can suddenly increase your adrenaline, which increases the clotting system, which can lead to strokes and so on. So it's something that you have to correct very gradually with, for example, increasing your orange juice and milk intake to stabilize things first. Orange juice and milk. Here's an interesting one I haven't heard. Phil, I've had eye bags, bags into my eyes for years. What's the original root cause of this? Oh, stress and too much fat in the diet, for example, blocking thyroid function. Sometimes the area around the eye is pigmented brown, as well as being puffy. And I've seen both of those corrected in just a matter of days by getting the right amount of thyroid supplement. Oh, just puffy could be not enough thyroid or too much? Not enough. Not enough. Not enough. Let's see, one more, then we're going to let you go to work here. Hi, Dr. Pete. What kind of 50-year-old man do to keep his receding hair? Boy, if we had the pure answer for that, we'd be millionaires. So what do you think hair loss is the root cause, Doc, root cause, hair loss? Several things that starve the follicle for energy. Not enough calcium and vitamin D in the diet increases your parathyroid hormone, and that is closely connected to under-functioning of the follicle, but it also goes with blocking thyroid function. And so there's a connection between aging and blood lipids, hypothyroidism, low vitamin D, not any one thing that's going to correct it, but getting your whole metabolism at a higher level is a basic thing. And again, that's generally low thyroid. Yeah. Low thyroid. And temperature first thing in the morning, how relevant is that for your thyroid function? Very important. Broder Barnes' books are worth reading for that. He was working before any good blood test came on the market, and he found that it was extremely reliable. And what's your minimum temp you want to be to let you know you've got good thyroid function, close to 98 degrees Fahrenheit when you wake up. 98. 97.8 to 98.2. Oh, so even 97.8, it's okay? Yeah, for waking up, but after breakfast it should go up above 98. Throughout the day then it wants to be above 98, somewhere around there. Around 98.6. And that's a good indication. Very good. And if you were taking too much, would that temperature get too high? Yeah, generally it holds your temperature around 99 degrees, even when you're resting. Do any of these, have you ever seen any of these little things where you put on your forehead, are they accurate do you think? No. No, they're not. You got to do, put it in your mouth. That's the only way to go. Or eardrum. Or eardrum. Oh, there's some, there's some eardrum. Yeah, the electronic IR, infrared thermometers work on the eardrum. Electronic... Infrared. Infrared on the eardrum. And that'll, that'll, so you don't have to sit there and hold a thing in your mouth. Yes, quicker. Quicker, yeah. Electronic infrared. Oh, never heard of those guys. Well, Dr. P, we have another show under our belt. Thanks so much for being here. We've covered a lot of territory today. Appreciate your help, sir. Oh, okay. Thank you. You take care of yourself, all right? Very good. Thank you. Bye-bye. Dr. A. P., Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. What a nice guy, right? What a nice guy. So grateful for him to come on the show once a month. And we got a few more emails, but we generally only keep them an hour and a half. That's the deal. So we did an hour and a half. All right. I love you all. Thank you for your ongoing support. Probably a 90% chance that Mike Stone is going to be here and talk about this whole germ thing. I got an email from him this morning. He says that they have some pretty bad weather up where he is. I'm not sure where he is. And he may have to take his son to school. Our son may be home. And you have to take care of him. So stay tuned. If it doesn't happen, I'll just come on and we'll play. But we'll let the snow angels take care of it and not concern ourselves with it. But it should be a pretty fascinating show. And it wouldn't happen because of the weather. Well, then we're going to make sure that he comes on real soon. Mike Stone. Then also Stuart Nunley. I think one of the best biological dentists anywhere. So if you have a dental question, root canals, cavities, any kind of thing about your mouth, just email me patrick at oneradionetwork.com. Dr. Stuart Nunley out of healthysmilesforlife.com. You can look at his website. He's out of Marble Falls, Texas. He's going to be here Wednesday at 10 o'clock. So get your questions in for him. And then one of our faves guys in the world of finance, Richard Mayberry, at 11 o'clock on Wednesday. So thanks for your ongoing support. Don't forget now we have the saunas. I'm sorry. Well, saunas everyday sale, $12.95. But the hydrogen machine, 20% off. Promo code ONERADIO if you'd like to get that. Like Pete just said, hydrogens are an excellent antioxidant. We've been talking about that. And then also the shaga and the rishi are on sale for the next week or so. Survival, use promo code FORTIFY15. F-O-R-T-I-F-Y 15. I'm going to get myself some and they're fun to take. Really very beneficial medicinal mushrooms. They're tonics so you can take them every day. Alright, love you all. We'll see you tomorrow. The creeks don't rise and the sod and snow don't fall with Mike Stone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Thank you. Take care. May the blessings be. Music.