 This is an horror film. Broadcasting from the beautiful Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, a very pleasant good morning to you. This is Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Just trying to get our act together here after a couple weeks off and still working out a few bugs. We had a piece of equipment that went down and then by the time we got it back in and set it all back up, we lost a lot. It's kind of like rebooting your life and you got to put it all back together again with our microphone. Had a problem with the microphone yesterday with Paul Lando and the quality, so we apologize for that. But, you know, it's life. What are you going to do? Well, we were not able to have Dr. Ray Pete on this Monday because of technical issues and Mercury was still doing its retrograde thing. But he is here today and we're excited about it. We have a lot to talk about and he's a PhD that's been working in this field for a very long time, back in the 60s and taught at schools and really worked with hormones from the very beginning. He knows a lot about thyroid stuff and we're always available to take your questions by email, Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com, Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. And we'll go right to the telephone and say hi to Dr. Pete. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning. Nice to talk to you. Boy, I tell you what, man. I need some more orange juice during a commercial. I'm going to go get some here. Oh, good. So I'd like to start with this and this is a personal thing, but I think people will really get some information from this because evolving the omega-3. So, Beck, you know, you've taught us that this omega-3 thing, too many of these are not good, right? Omega-3s? Yeah. In some ways, the more double bonds you have in a molecule, the longer chain of maybe five or six double bonds, the more anti-thyroid it is and the more pro-estrogen, and that combination is especially bad for metabolism. So omega-3s are double bond and it's anti-estrogen, so that would be? Pro-estrogen. Pro-estrogen, right, which we don't want, right? So I noticed that if I was doing a lot of salmon when I first started hearing about this, then every now and then I would get these little red blotches on my forearm. Yeah, how big in diameter are they? Oh, I'm talking, I don't know, let's see, maybe a quarter of an inch and then it's maybe an inch wide, one of those marks. Yeah, those are actually little hemorrhages and its weakness of the capillaries and a combination of high cortisol and high estrogen is typically involved in that. Oh, so it's not an omega-3 thing? Well, to the extent that that goes with higher estrogen and estrogen activates your adrenal glands to make cortisol and the combination makes leaky capillaries. So that's what that is if you got a little blotch. So I was doing really great and I hadn't seen them for a couple of months and then I got off the salmon and just was doing other kind of fishes. And then I ate a handful of walnuts one morning and I know they're very high in omega-3s and then I got this little blotch. So I was kind of attributing that to the walnuts and they're very high in omega-3s but could that be it? Yeah, except walnuts also have other very powerful allergens and the allergens will trigger cortisol too. It's hard to tell with a complex food like walnut. I see. So the high cortisol is what could make your little capillaries weak there, right? High cortisol? Yeah, and that tends to increase with aging. Aging. Well, I don't believe in aging so we don't do that. So what could I be doing? But cortisol, isn't that just a reaction to the world around us as well? Yeah, not having enough energy to meet the demands of the world. A lot of that going on, right Doc? Yeah, I've been experimenting the last few months with reducing my protein intake and increasing carbohydrate. Interesting. I think most people are overeating on protein. Essentially you get enough but it depends on the rate of metabolism in affluent countries. I think most people get much more than enough protein. Have you heard of the messianine effect on aging? No, I don't know that one. Animal studies where you restrict messianine right down to the bare minimum which might be only half or a third as much as people normally eat, their lifespan is extended by 40% even without limiting calorie intake. So the low calorie diet, the reason that can extend lifespan is mostly two things, lower messianine intake and lower PUFA intake. So in general, do you think it's possible that over the years we've just got to start eating too many little steaks or whatever, just protein in general? I think so. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So how are you feeling like when you've been doing that? Can you feel like you do better with that? Yeah, actually. A better appetite in general and a livelier feeling. So that would be substituting a little more rice or potatoes or something rather than a steak? Yeah, oatmeal for breakfast. Oh, oatmeal for breakfast. That sounds fun. That's pretty strengthening, right? Oatmeal, feeling your oats and all that thing? Yeah, and as long as you get enough milk in your diet, the mineral binding quality of oatmeal has scared a lot of people away from it. But all you need to do is make sure you're getting enough milk. It's so great. I mean, there's so many people out there in the natural world that just poo-poo the dairy. I mean, the milk, oh my goodness. Do you think milk was poison the way they talk about it? Yeah, it's largely the calcium content, but there are innumerable anti-stress factors in milk besides the calcium. We have a great source of kind of well-fed goat milk here at the farmer's market. I'm going to pick up a gallon and I do good with it. I mean, I just warm it up a little and, shoot, man, I do good with it. I don't know what it is. Yeah, very digestible. And a lot of people feel something unpleasant when they have a glass or two of ice-cold milk. But if you just bring it up towards body temperature, it's the drop of body temperature that a lot of cold drink can actually stop your heart just by a reflex action. Like when we were kids, remember, you were going into the refrigerator and take a big hit of cold milk. Remember that? Boy, shoot. Or cold milk and cereal and sugar. You know, it's so funny. Go ahead. In hot weather, it could be very nice, but I knew one old guy that was in good health sat down to eat a bowl of ice cream and after just a few bites, dropped dead. No kidding. Why doesn't the heart like real cold stuff? Partly, it's a stress reaction. The stomach has nervous connections to the heart that send out signals of inflammation and cause vesture constriction and rhythm changes. If I wake up in the middle of the night, sometimes I'll want to read for a while and have a little glass of goat milk and I'll just warm it to like maybe 105 or 110 and boy, a little sugar in there, boy, that'll put you back nighty-night really quick. How is it possible that that sugar that we've been told forever will make the kids hyperactive and can actually settle one down? That just seems counterintuitive. It lowers adrenaline and cortisol. It increases your metabolic rate, but the higher metabolic rate allows your nerves and muscles to relax, takes energy to relax, and that's what warm sugar and milk are good at. And that's funny. So the higher metabolic, so that's tied into the thyroid, right? Which is what the thyroid does, it keeps the metabolism happy? Yeah, the calcium and sugar combined activate the oxidative metabolism and turn off the various stress kinds of metabolism. It's amazing, isn't it, that sugar could actually settle you down? I mean, whoa. Our hospitals pretty commonly use a little bit of sugar when they want to do something like a skin trick, a blood test or something on a baby so they don't notice the pain. Really? They know that? Uh-huh. That's interesting. When folks go to the hospital, what do they normally just kind of, the first thing they do is they put them up to a little drip. I don't want to get off on this subject too much, but what are they putting in there? You know what I mean, a bag when they hook people up right away? Oh, yeah, glucose, isotonic glucose solution is a very common... Sugar. But they don't use it enough, and they tend to keep it down in concentration, like 5% sugar is the standard concentration. But if you use about three or four times that much, the concentration, whether it's salt or sugar, the concentration itself helps to restore your own energy production. Because when you're starved of energy, your cells take up too much water. And if you put in a slightly hyperosmotic solution into your blood, whether it's glucose or salt, that draws the excess water out of your cells and helps with resuscitation. That's very, very cool. Dr. Ray Peet is here. We have lots of emails, but if you want to jump in, we'll see how many we can get to. patrick at oneradionetwork.com. Before we go to the emails, I just want to bring up the carbon dioxide. So I did a little... I've been doing a little research, and you can get a... I think you mentioned like a 10 kilo tank, right? 10 kilo tank, and you can get an aluminum one, so it's not so heavy, not too expensive. And then get it filled up, and then there's a place that somebody sent me a link, Dr. Peet, where I think it was used for ozone, where you can just put yourself in a bag, right? Yeah, all the way up to your neck. Yeah, I don't have the location for getting them. Occasionally people tell me that they got some full-length, very tough plastic bags that are just perfect. Yeah, and then when you get the tank, does it come with a little doohickey on there that you can just open it up, and it'll just go right into a bag? It'll do that? Yeah, the tank usually comes just with like an outdoor water faucet handle, and you turn that, and it blasts out. A lot of people want to sell a $100 or $150 regulator, but if you're just filling a bag, speed is fine. You can blow up a big bag in 5 or 10 seconds because it comes out so fast. Oh, I see. So you're going to be filling the bag up first and then jumping into it? Yeah, you keep the neck of the bag high because it's heavier than atmosphere, and it doesn't fall out if you keep the opening upward, and then you can climb into it carefully. And tell folks who are just new to this idea of carbon dioxide what kind of benefits one might have when they kind of hang out in a bag for an hour or so. A book published in 1905 describes sitting in a tub of CO2 for an hour like spending a day at the beach, refreshing and restorative. And if you just put it on one arm, for example, a small bag of pure CO2, in about 15 or 30 minutes you can see that arm is pinker than the other one. And it will usually stay noticeably pink for a few hours after that because the CO2 saturates the cells and fat and connective tissues, everything. It just becomes slightly more acidic, but the amount is enough to keep the blood circulating more freely, and it binds to hemoglobin, releasing the oxygen in the tissue, and that also opens up the blood vessels. So it's a real nice circulation thing, the CO2, right? Yeah, when you look at what's happening in the heart. The heart will pump more with every beat because the blood vessels in the extremities are relaxed. And so the blood flows very easily and so the heart can pump a lot with each stroke. Say that again now, so I kind of lost you there. Well, normally the small arteries out in your extremities are offering resistance and that keeps your blood pressure up. But when they're relaxed, your blood pressure comes down and so your heart pumps more blood faster through those open arteries. Just because they're relaxed. Yeah. They're relaxed, yeah. Speaking of the heart, is this true, many people argue, not a lot, but some people argue, like Cowan and others, that even when the big arteries kind of get gooped up with something, calcium or whatever, that the body puts out these kind of ancillary pathways to keep the Mr. Heart happy. You think that's true? Yeah, and the acid nature of the CO2 molecule helps you keep the soft tissues from crystallizing calcium, brings them back into solution. But in the bone, the carbon dioxide plus dissolved calcium actually increases the crystallization into the bone. And people who've lived in a submarine with well above normal CO2 for months at a time, they find that their bones are getting denser and denser with time. Up to a year or more, the bones keep adding calcium and carbon dioxide. So it's actually putting the calcium where it wants to be rather than in the arteries. Yeah, and the opposite of that, when you block the formation of CO2, you get the formation of lactic acid instead. And in your bone, those have exactly opposite effects. The parathyroid hormone makes local lactic acid in the bone that dissolves your bones, and the CO2 has just exactly the opposite effect. And a drug called acetazolamide that raises the carbon dioxide in your body, it has a side effect of increasing bone density. So could that be tied in at all to remember when these people were running 25 miles and a couple of them fell over from the hard stuff, where maybe they were over-breathing possibly and getting rid of it? Yeah, and... A surprising proportion of the population is over-breathing, even at rest, to the extent that your hypothyroid, instead of making carbon dioxide, you will make an excess of lactic acid, and that's a sign of over-breathing, so when too much exercise raises your CO2, it means you should have been exercising more slowly. Uh-huh. So that's the tie-in where Cowan talks about with the lactic acid in this stro... stro... how do you say that thing? Wabanine or whatever that is, right? And it's supposed to give... the wabanine and Cowan argues that he talks about this wabanine or strofanthavis that that gets rid of the lactic acid for the heart. Well your liver is what brings it down to normal after over-exercising or being hypothyroid. If you're at rest, the liver will take lactic acid out of the blood and combine it to make glucose again. But that takes extra energy, so you need some good thyroid function for your liver. To have the energy to turn lactic acid back into glucose and so a low thyroid person very easily gets into a low CO2 high lactic acid condition even without noticeably breathing hard or exercising. Those are the people who if they take an airplane up to... Mexico City, for example, don't have time to adapt. They get various kinds of altitude sickness, headache, swelling of the lungs and brain, and in extreme situations they can treat it with breathing a little bit of concentrated CO2. Hmm. Fascinating. Dr. Ray Peete is with us, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. I got a little thyroid story. I don't want to talk about me all the show, but I was doing a little bit of the piggy thyroid that I got somewhere in Thailand. And I started doing that and got my TSH from, I don't know, it was like 3 or 4 to 0.5, like you said was the best. And I didn't feel a whole lot different, but the little 0.5 thing made me feel good. So, I guess about, I don't know, 2 months ago or so, I dropped the whole thing on the floor and these little pretty thyroids were all over the floor, right? And I figured the only way I could get them up would be a dustpan and then they'd be all dirty, so I just gave it up. And I said, well, let me see. And you know what, Dr. Peete, to this day, it's only been 2 months, but my temperature is just like, boom, you know, 98.2 or 3 or 4 first thing in the morning, I feel fine. So, maybe those little piggies just kicked up my thyroid and I'm good. I don't know. Yeah, over the years I've known several people who did that. Once you get it up, it's the same with progesterone. Both thyroid and progesterone support each other. And so, if everything else is good about the way you live, what you eat, just a few doses of progesterone or thyroid can remedy the situation and you don't need the supplement. Interesting. Yeah, I take a little bit of that, the one that you recommend, the Progest D, you know, 3 or 4 times a week, you know, I'll take a little dab of it. So, I'm getting a little progesterone. So, the body just kind of figured it out. So, could there be a lot of people on thyroid not knowing that they could maybe stop taking it a bit if they played with it? Yeah, you don't want to. Stop taking it if your temperature falls and you start feeling bad again. Right, right. I mean that exactly would it how long would it take for the temperature to fall? If you're gonna we want to wean off of it, dr Pete to know if you're on the wrong track here, and it's not time to go the active hormone Has a very short Stay in the body about 12 hours I'm three, but the t4 the Cyroxin has about a two-week residency in the body so after two weeks you still have half of the amount of Cyroxin Been there previously So yeah, so you'd be able to tell fairly soon if it's not not time to do that Yeah, about a week you feel yourself cooling off But even if folks that stay on it, it's not a bad thing is it? I mean, this little bit's not going to hurt you, right? If you completely suppress your thyroid function, I did that once using a Cytum LT3 And I looked in the mirror one morning and I had two grooves about the size of my index finger, one on each side of my voice box And I realized my thyroid had shrunken down to almost nothing And so I stopped taking the T3 and in 24 hours my neck was level and smooth again The gland is extremely flexible and quick to recover Okay, let's do a little break and then we'll come back and dig into these emails We have lots of them. We're getting back on track here after a long time of, you know, a couple weeks. Phew, man. Seemed like forever I have to retrain myself but the equipment thing is kind of balancing out and being a little more comfortable here after a few days of whoopty-loops. So thanks for your ongoing support. We had a lot of emails during the time saying, what's wrong? Where are you? You okay? And so we appreciate that. If you have heard us talk about these, the hydrogen machine that we promote, I think it's, you know, I, you know, I can't really speak highly. It's just, I really enjoy it. I do it a lot, you know, and I'm feeling good and looking good and everything's happy except a little red blotch on my forearm. If that's the worst thing I got going on, man, I'm in good shape. But check it out. There's so much information on molecular hydrogen. If you'd like to learn more about it, just go on our website, oneradionetwork.com and you can just Google, or not Google, but on our search function put in there George Wiseman. And, you know, watch some of his videos on BitChute or just listen to them and George will really fill you in on why you might want to experiment with this. And it's a lifetime warranty and a one-year no questions asked money back warranty. So hey, I mean, what's not to like about that? If you don't like it after 10 months, my goodness, just send it back and I'll give you your money back. And it's a Brown's gas, so it has this expanded water he calls EXW, Gerald Pollard talks about. So we drink the water. I've been doing a couple quarts a day of the hydrogen water. And, you know, I didn't do it for a long time because I felt, well, I'm breathing the gas. But I, after talking to George last time, I get into, I got into, started to breathe, drink the water and I can really feel a little difference there. So I think it's valuable to do it. Takes 10 minutes to juice up the water and then you rock and roll. And then breathe the gas as much as you can, the Brown's gas. And there's a 20% off now. George and I worked out a deal. We wanted to get more people, not like George needs a business. I mean, he's about a month behind and just getting these things out. So when you order one, he can't get out right away. But, you know, I don't think the backlog is gonna, gonna, you know, heal up anytime soon because a lot of people, they talk about it and they tell their friends and man try it. So I think you'll enjoy it. You know it's no risk thing so try 20% off 20% off on use promo code one radio and a lifetime warranty on the hydrogen machine. Go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.org and you'll see all kinds of peer-reviewed studies and I don't that even means anything these days but well check it out and they're doing a lot of work with a molecular hydrogen not even browns gas but molecular hydrogen which is not quite as powerful in China and all kinds of Singapore Vietnam and Japan. A lot of work being done with folks helping folks to recover from strokes so there's a powerful technology that is at your disposal. Go on our website try it if you like promo code OneRadio 20% off on oneradio.com. Previously with Dr. Ross Stewart who just kind of came up with this telling about how he works with people and their neurotransmitters. How do we produce sufficient amounts of glutathione in the liver which of course is a big filter for all the blood pulling half spent hormones waste dead cells and other toxins out of the out of the blood. The higher the level of glutathione the longer a person's going to live and the better their blood is and I'm glad you're doing a sulfur product. Once you start getting any of these kinds of symptoms all the way from autism all the way through Parkinson's you can't get enough sulfur from eating broccoli and kale and cauliflower and garlic and onions you can't get enough you need to supplement it. Well the information just keeps on coming with sulfur. The sulfur that we promote is 99.97% pure no additives no excipients just click an order on the front page of OneRadioNetwork.com and if you'd like to get more than four pounds a lot of people do just email me Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com and we'll hook you up for that. I did you know it was really interesting I've been experimenting with it I do about a tablespoon twice a day. And last night I did about oh two teaspoons just in my mouth and then I flushed it down with some water right before bed because and I had some pretty wild dreams now I don't you know I know I believe that dreams are a spiritual experience and they're not mental or you know they definitely are we as soul we go into another reality but I know it helps the recall so people say well I've had these wild dreams but again I just think that we we have these dream experiences all the time and for some reason somehow the sulfur helps you know helps you remember them I don't know how that works but it does and so I was really having a good time last night I was all over the place so check it out the sulfur it's it's really really a good product we have this on sale and then we'll be right back with dr. Pete and we'll dig in to your your phone calls this is a colostrum it's on sale right now here is a little primer on colostrum colostrum is this amazing food and of course we have it in a powdered form so it comes kind of like a dried milk although technically Colossum is not really a dairy product it is the sort of first food for mammals it's made where dairy products are made in the body or it comes from that same place but you not really a milk even though it comes from others and of course all mammals produce colostrum and they produce that colostrum to feed their young mammals really love the idea that if we're going to have cows and we're going to milk them that that colostrum becomes the most medicinal part of that whole system so colostrum in human bodies does a lot of different things but its primary stuff is it keeps the immune system in shape so when we're using colostrum it keeps our immune system kind of like going to the gym almost, like keeps it fit so that we can fight off infections, one of the things it does really helps us do really well. That's a natural normal thing for us but we're living in a world that really breaks our immune system down so we need immuno-allies. Probably nothing in the world supports... our ability to stay antiviral the way colostrum does. That's a lovely product. We've been taking it for years. Not that that means anything to you, but we have and love it. You can click an order colostrum and you can order the one or two kilo containers. Get on the auto ship for the best price. Any survival link right here. OneRadioNetwork.com. And the biggest sale of the year, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, use promo code RESTORE. That's R-E-S-T-O-R-E for those of you in Petaluma. R-E-S-T-O-R-E. 20% off on all colostrum. And now we have the regular, which is just... which we've had for years. And now they have vanilla, chocolate, which I had yesterday. It was yum. Cacao in there a little bit. Just a little bit stevia. And strawberry. So four different flavors. Colostrum on sale right now. I think for another week or so. I'll have to check into that. Colostrum on sale. Use promo code RESTORE. And this is March the 23rd when you're hearing this one. So if you want to get it, go after it right now on OneRadioNetwork.com. From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, once a month we have the honor of talking with Dr. Ray Pete, a PhD. And it's Ray Pete... It's RayPete.com, right? I haven't looked for a while. Here's RayPete.com. RayPete's newsletter at gmail.com if you'd like to sign up for that, baby. And that's every few months you're doing that now, Dr. Pete, right? Four times a year. Four times a year. Oh. Yeah. Every quarter. You're not going to retire on us, are you, anytime soon? No plans. That's good. We don't want to lose you. Okay. Let's go to some emails. You ready? Oh, we have lots. Okay. Here's a 67-year-old male human who's been diagnosed with chronic lympho-L-Y-M-P-O-C-Y-T-I-C leukemia. He has a low blood clout, low blood cortisol, excuse me, and low energy. What areas can I focus on to slow down the steadily increasing lymphocytes? My white blood cell count was about 15.5 last year. This year, 18.5. Eternally grateful from James. It's probably a good idea to have a blood test measuring both lactic acid and carbon dioxide because adequate carbon dioxide slows cell division and reduces inflammation. And there's usually some sort of inflammation like an antigen involved in all of the leukemia lymphoma type problems. And so, they're finding that for both lymphoma and leukemia, both aspirin and acetazolamide or something to increase your body's CO2 content will slow the growth. Now, as long as I've known you, you've not ever been adverse to aspirin, right? It's a pretty safe kind of a thing? Yeah, it's been, I guess, 40 years since I first dared to. A woman who was desperate with inflammatory breast cancer, extremely painful, and doctors wouldn't touch it. It occurred to me that she would be an obvious one to emphasize the pain-controlling effect, and as a side effect, reduce the inflammation and growth of the cancer. So, I suggested she take aspirin until the pain subsides, and just two or three days, she said, the redness and swelling and pain had all subsided so that she could then wear a brassiere and talk to doctors about what to do. My goodness. It can make a very quick, a very profound difference. So, aspirin is anti-inflammatory, mainly? Mm-hmm. Mainly anti-inflammatory. Why does it lower, if the body's heating up to, in theory, get rid of whatever, right, with the flu or something, that's the mechanism, right? Why would the aspirin lower that mechanism? Isn't that... It doesn't always... Oh, it doesn't? The basic effect, if you're not suffering from an infection or something, if you just take an aspirin and check your temperature, very typically, your temperature and pulse rate will rise with the aspirin because it's activating the respiratory system the same way thyroid does, and it even activates the thyroid action on cells. So, there's no downside to popping some good old bear aspirin every now and then just for... Yeah, it's always best to take it with food because any concentrated crystalline substance, whether it's vitamins or salt or sugar, it can injure your stomach membranes. So, it's very important to have food or milk with it. Is the initial component of aspirin white willow bark to this day? I mean, is that where they get it? Oh, yeah, you can buy it not too expensively on the internet. If you enter bulk aspirin, one of the advertisements coming up will be white willow bark. Really? I mean, it's the same thing, really? Well, the bark has lots of other stuff, so it's a load of aspirin. You can get a pound of aspirin for something in the range of $12 to $20 a pound. So, is the good old bear stuff you get at whatever, is it pretty pure? Pretty good, except they put additives in it. They put additives? Yeah, the bear I've had good luck with, but some aspirin tablets have junk like talc. Yeah, and sometimes they coat them up and God knows what they do with them, right? They put coatings. Yeah, wax and so on. What about people, I know people that go to cardiologists that the cardiologists recommend they do these little baby aspirins. Is that recommended for people? I really think a lot of the stories about aspirin like rice syndrome don't give aspirin to babies with a fever. That started, I think, around 1970s, mid or late 1970s, and Tylenol was having a big sales campaign, and simultaneously we had a lot of stories about people dying from bleeding or rice syndrome from taking aspirin came out. But later, several studies questioned whether there ever was such a thing as rice syndrome, and one study in Australia found that people who took Tylenol had a higher incidence of so-called rice syndrome than those who took aspirin. So I think a huge part of the myths about aspirin came because of Tylenol advertising. Now they're giving even premature babies, they'll treat them with Tylenol, and despite knowing that Tylenol causes kidney failure is associated with during pregnancy or prematurity, it is strongly associated with causing autism and liver failure. It's very poisonous stuff, and it happens that aspirin is an antidote to the toxicity of Tylenol. Really? Boy, they sell a lot of Tylenol, don't they, Dr. Pete out there? It's big, isn't it? Huge. Big brand. Here's an email from Phil. He's in London with Queen Mum. You recommend a lot of calcium, but does too much calcium affect the absorption of other minerals like magnesium? Milk has about a 10 to 1 ratio, I think it is, of calcium to magnesium, but still the body can sort it out and get all the magnesium you need from milk. From milk. And you're okay with pasteurized milk? Yeah, I generally use that kind. Would you please ask Dr. Pete what causes dry macular degeneration and if it can be halted or reversed? Thanks. From Karen. Good nutrition is the basic thing. Stopping leaky blood vessels and deteriorating capillaries is what you have to do. And aspirin is generally protective. I think there are other things, other drugs that improve the metabolism of the retina. For example, agmatine is a very harmless chemical that derived from arginine that lowers the production of nitric oxide when there's an inflammation or degeneration. So there are lots of ways to protect the retinal metabolism. Back to the leaky blood vessels again, what would be positive foods to eat to support the blood vessels? Beets, right? Beets as well? B vitamins are a generally balanced, rich diet. If you cut down on your fat intake, that means you're going to eat more of the other foods, and fat doesn't contain B vitamins. So a low fat diet is pretty similar to a high B vitamin diet. Low fat, oh, I see, okay, I see how that balances out. Here is from John, I'm taking methylene blue, is it okay to take with Strumulus 2mg tablet? What's methylene blue, Dr. B? It's been around for about 150 years. The diet industry found that it was somewhat germicidal, Paul Ehrlich advocated it for killing parasitic diseases, huge doses of, I think, 500 mg at a time, but one of its side effects is if you go into the sunlight and your tissues, sometimes the white of the eye turns blue if you're taking a lot of it. It sensitizes you to sunlight and can cause red blood cells to break down and sunburn easily and so on. I don't recommend the high doses, and it's being used for Alzheimer's disease and other degenerative nerve diseases because it is an electron donor and acceptor both, so it can pick up electrons in the electron transport chain and carry them past a defect in your enzymes and deliver that electron the other side of the defect, so it's like a short circuit for getting your electron transport and respiration going again, and to do that, for example, people with depression, they're not making enough mental nervous energy, just a half a milligram is plenty for that electron transport effect. People sometimes pop right out of a depression with just a tiny dose of methylene blue. And what about, John, in taking it with the stromulus, is that okay, John wants to know? What is the other stuff? Stomulus, I'm sorry, S-I-R-O-L-I-M-U-S, two milligrams, sirolimus? What was the purpose of taking it? Well, I don't know, but he just wanted to know if it was okay to take the methylene with, he's taking two milligrams of sirolimus. I have never looked at that particular interaction, but sirolimus, I think, has anti-cancer functions, anti-immunity, can be very protective for some infections, fungal infections, for example. Interesting. Here's one from Alex. All right, let's see what we have here. It's kind of long. I'm going to paraphrase a bit, if you don't mind, Alex. Let's see, you've got MMR, is that MMR, measles and mumps rebella? Yeah, I guess that is. Seven years ago, had a reaction, my spine, shoulders, and hips are all crooked. Wow. My left foot got hammer-toed, the clinic did blood work, diagnosed me with, I'm going to spell it, oh, it's A-N-K-Y-L-O-S-I-N-G, spondylosis. Wow. For a short period, I took doses of humors to help, but wanted to take my health in my own hands, wanted to know if Dr. P had any theories on what I could do. Did they suggest any diet changes? Let's see, he said, I seem to do pretty well staying away from starches and sugars. For about a month every year, I get super bad inflammation. Concentrating on his digestion, more fiber, more digestible carbohydrates, but not too much at once, in case there are bacteria converting them. But the fiber will help to move the bacteria through and out of the system faster, and possibly antibiotics as well as the fiber to help clean out the bad bacteria. So that will get them moving out of the colon, Dr. P, right? Yeah, and making sure your thyroid is good so that your digestion is active and quick. Here's an email from Beverly. Can Dr. P explain why so many people feel better? When they're taking this ivermectin, if they believe they have COVID, and we know the positive tests are not correct, so we don't even know if they have it. Thanks. Yeah, that's true. It has many, many known effects, but I think the essential activity is that it's anti-inflammatory. Anti-inflammatory? Yeah, like aspirin. It can be good for everything. So that's why people feel better, maybe? I think it's the anti-inflammatory effect. We talked to some ladies long ago out of Mexico, and they were using ivermectin, gosh, I guess 10 years ago, Dr. P, with the autistic kids, claiming that it worked on their parasites. Yeah, it's originally a parasite killer, but I think any good anti-inflammatory thing is going to help with autism. Yeah. Okay. Can Dr. P share with us what brands of oysters are available in the United States? He would recommend it being very low in contaminants or toxins. Is it preferable that they be placed in salt brine or in olive oil? Yeah. Just for taste, I like the Crown Prince brand of smoked oysters in olive oil, but I don't think you can be sure of their level of contamination. I think they come from the west of Japan, and so they aren't in the worst of the radioactive pollution. But when possible, if you can get South American oysters that are lower in industrial and radiation toxins, that's preferable. And it's okay then if they're in a can, so obviously they've been cooked, but they still have benefits. Oh, sure. Yeah. Besides the smoked things in the can, we usually at the fish section of a supermarket, they will have freshly filled oysters in a little container. So you can get, I think it's a 10-ounce container that has five or six or seven or eight oysters in it. Yeah. And the benefits of oysters are? Are very rich in all of the sea minerals, selenium, copper, iodine, zinc, and so on. But they're also high in iron. So if you're worried about excessive iron, it would be better to alternate with things like crab and shrimp. Yeah. Yeah. And you like lobster too, huh? Oh, it's great. Very similar nutritionally to shrimp though, and the price of lobster is sometimes excessive. We can get some really, really fun, great tasting lobster here. But boy, they have gone up in price in the last month. Whoa. You know, everybody's kind of jumping on the whole inflation thing, right? Yeah. Okay. Everybody's raising their prices. Okay. This is from Chris. He's in Canada. Oh, Canada. Could you please ask Dr. Pete what to do if someone has very, very dry skin and the only things that tend to help very little are all polyunsaturated fats like almonds, sesame, flax, the desired saturated fats like coconut, cacao, shea butter, tallow, lanolin get absorbed, but the skin is still dry. So he's putting all the good stuff on his skin, but he's saying that the poofers are the only ones that seem to help. What's a fellow to do? Correct the thyroid function. Oh, thyroid again, boy. Yeah, thyroid makes you form sebum or the skin oils and sweat at the same time. So it moisturizes and oils your skin. And once again, your fave is a TSH and this is pretty much the numbers that you concern yourself with. The TSH at 0.5 or below, correct, if I'm right? Around, yeah. One study showed that 0.4 and below, but 0.5 is fine. Wow. And you, over the years, you've got to the point where you don't really look too much at all the free T3 and all that other stuff? No, because there are so many things. For example, if you have poofa circulating in your blood, whether it's N minus six or N minus three, both of those block the function of thyroid. So you're going to have lots of thyroid hormone in your blood, but it's being blocked in effect by the polyunsaturated fats. Wow. And do all nuts have poofas? All nuts? Well, macadamia are pretty low in poofa, more saturated fats, and I think the taste quality goes up with the saturated fats. So what are some other ones that are low poofas other than macadamias? Do we have other choices? I think cashews are fairly low in poofa. What about pistachios? Any of them? They're from a moderate climate, and so I think they're fairly high in poofa. And then the oils, that would be all the usual suspect, right? Olive, not olive, but more corn and all the oils and soy and all that stuff, right? Those are the things that block thyroid. Block thyroid. Man, I wonder how much... Corn oil, they sold over the last 50 years. My goodness. Oh, yeah. Wesson oil, right? Ooh. Yeah, cottonseed oil was the first one to be promoted because it was a waste product. Very, very cheap. And in the 1950s, they started selling it as a health food. And they claimed that it would prevent heart disease, the more you ate, prevent cancer, and even would make you slim. But it turns out to cause cancer, to cause heart disease and obesity. You know, it's funny, Dr. Beat, I grew up in the 50s, and I remember my mom saying, I only use that Wesson oil, it's not good for you. I wonder how she knew that. I wonder how she knew. Well, she's Italian, maybe just all the olive oil, right? I don't know. She knew it. Probably, yeah. She said, don't use that. No, that's bad stuff. It's great. Go ahead. It's a waste product, essentially, from the cotton industry. Which is what canola, too, right? I mean, that's one of the number one, even in health food stores, Pufa. Right, canola? Yeah, it varies in its Pufa content, but Hans Selye did studies with it showing that it wasn't the erucic acid. Canola was designed to be low in erucic acid, but Hans Selye showed that it's the linoleic-related Pufa that make canola harmful to your heart. He showed a high canola diet cause when he would slice up the hearts. of experimental animals. The heart was full of little dead areas. But if he gave them cocoa butter, a highly saturated stearic acid-rich fat, that would block the effect of the PUFA and protect their heart from canola oil. Really? So it might be good for all of us to have a little cocoa butter? A little chocolate, yeah, if it's pure actual chocolate. But a bulk quantity of chocolate on the market is made with an oil that is also used in oil well drilling as a lubricant. But you can also get hunks of organic cocoa butter too, right? And you can melt that and put it in a smoothie, you think? Yeah, you want to check. Sometimes a person can be allergic to something in it. It depends on exactly how it's made. It's always good to check for allergies. Here's one from Robert. Is it possible to reduce an enlarged prostate? If it's possible, how can I, if I need to take antibiotics, which are the safest for digestive problems? Okay, we've got two questions here. Enlarged prostate, and if it's possible to shrink it up, do you know a way? Yeah, a pregnenolone is helpful by lowering general stress and inflammation. But aspirin and thyroid, getting your thyroid function up and using aspirin, both of those reduce ordinary inflammation of the prostate. So that's what it is. And how are you, any relative good stuff by looking at the PSA, this very popular test they give to guys, the PSA? Yeah, better not look at it, even. Around 1990, when that came out as a test indicating prostate cancer, suddenly the death rate from prostate cancer went up, I think it was 50% in a year or two because they were giving more treatment just on the basis of PSA, no evidence of cancer. But the more treatment they gave, the more people died from the treatment associated with having diagnosed cancer. My goodness. And then Robert wanted to know if he had to take antibiotics, are they the safest for digestive and not killing, all the good stuff? Yeah, you can take the dose that stops the symptoms without totally sterilizing your intestine and risking the development of dangerous toxic bacteria like the difficile or something like that. Yeah, the microbe difficile, yeah. Wow. So you're suggesting that if you wanted to take one, you could do it for until the symptoms go away and then quit, just quit? Yeah, I think that's safest because I have talked to just hundreds of people who got chronic bowel problems from following through on the idea that you have to take all of your prescription every day for the full number of days it was prescribed and that's very often enough to totally disrupt your natural bacteria. And does that take a while to build back? Sometimes never comes back. Sometimes never comes back? Really? Never? With great effort fixing your hormones and your food and supplementing the bacteria sometimes by enema because that gets past your stomach and digestive enzymes that kill most of them. So what would you put in your enema? The right kind of bacteria. That kind of bacteria. Interesting. Have you ever heard of a bacteria called L. roteri? A microbe? Yeah. We've been making some yogurt with it. We had a guest on and recommended it and you get it. It's out of Sweden. And it seems to be, my body seems to like it. I don't know what it's doing, but you know, I'm playing with it. Yeah, years ago I got some antibiotic bacteria. It was a combination of Bacillus subtilis and I think Licheniformis was the other species. And those are producers of antibiotics. And I found that you could make yogurt with those. Very bland tasting. More like, what was it? They used to make a pudding by adding rennet to it. It doesn't sour the milk, but it makes a sweet jelly out of the milk. Here's kind of a complicated one. I'm going to get through it though. Try to keep your email short if you can. This is Thomas in Sweden. He used to take about 5 to 10 milligrams of progesterone on his neck and a similar dose of DHEA orally to mitigate his headaches. After 7 months, he had to stop since he gained 15 kilo of pure fat, not water. And since stopping, I've continued to gain another 3 kilo the last 2 months. Of course, I can't be sure if the progesterone, but before this, nothing including desiccated thyroid could ever even move my weight upwards. So, what the heck happened here? Can Dr. Pete give us some idea what could have happened? Didn't he say he was using the progesterone on his neck? Cream on his neck, correct. Oh, yeah. He was essentially absorbing none. Oh, really? When you put on your neck, you don't absorb any? Or on your skin. The creams are, with the greatest attention and rubbing in, you might absorb as much as 10% of what you put on, but usually it's less than that. Really? And so putting on only 5 or 10 milligrams, your body won't even know that it has had a boost of progesterone. So, these progesterone creams and all this stuff that they sell, they just don't work, in your opinion? Well, if you put on 1,000 milligrams on your skin, you definitely will feel it. And all you need is a dab of that really inexpensive progesterone and you're there, right? Yeah. If you put it on your lips or tongue or take it with food, it's essentially 100% absorbed because it mixes with the fats in your food and is absorbed, bypassing the liver, circulating in the chylomicron fractions. Wow. Here is Vince. He said, we live in a goiter belt. Do you recommend that we take iodine? If so, how many milligrams per day? Thanks for the show. A little bit of iodized salt is okay if you're eating a lot of local foods, for example, but if you get sea foods or imported foods, you're likely not to be iodine deficient. Of several dozen studies of the association between iodized salt or any iodine supplement and nodules or cancer of the thyroid, there's a very strong relationship between getting a little too much iodine. For example, even half a milligram a day of supplement continued for a long time is associated with increased degeneration nodules and cancer of the thyroid. So the Morton's Pickling and Canning Salt, does that have a little iodine in there? None at all. None at all, but it doesn't matter, right? Not if you eat seafood about once a week. The average American gets food produced in many different kinds of soil, so very few people. Self-sufficient farmers in the Greater Belts are the only ones who might be at risk, but if they buy fertilizer made elsewhere, then sometimes that will provide iodine. Patrick Timpone, Dr. Ray Pita is with us on generally the third Monday, but we had a technical thing, so he was kind enough to come on on this Wednesday, the 23rd of March as we're live here on radionetwork.com. Rachel writes in, Dr. Pita has always recommended a small amount of T4 at bedtime to hold the TSH down during the night. I'm currently on lavoxirine and some T3. Could you please ask Dr. Pete if the lavoxirine needs to be taken on an empty stomach and away from food? That's what pharmacists and doctors almost always recommend. Take it in the morning before breakfast on an empty stomach. But that's unphysiological. The body doesn't dump your day's thyroid into your bloodstream all in one dose in the morning. It trickles it out steadily during the day. And the closer you can come to that, a little bit with each meal gives you closer to the way the body uses thyroid. So, was she incorrect? She assumed you recommend taking T4 at bedtime? Yeah, if someone is having a stressful night, for example, the stress hormones rise during the night if you're deficient in some nutrients, including carbohydrates. And TSH goes up during the night along with several other stress hormones that disturb your sleep and keep you tired. Can you actually get a product where you're just getting T4 if you want it to take a little at night? Yeah, almost all prescribed thyroid in the U.S. is only T4. And for women, women have a very poor average response to T4. Why is that, I wonder? Because estrogen inhibits the conversion of T4 to the active hormone. And so doctors, they think that when you increase the T4 too much that you're getting hyperthyroidism. But if you're not converting it properly, as about half of all women do, then too much T4 starts turning under the influence of stress hormones into reverse T3 rather than active T3. So it lowers your metabolic rate and other thyroid functions to take too much T4. So when folks go to the doc and they get a prescription for thyroid, whatever the most natural one, I guess, whatever it is, it's just T4. That's it. Yeah, and that's not at all natural. That's a synthetic, which in a healthy young man, it works just like thyroid hormone because their livers can activate it. But the reason women have about ten times the incidence of thyroid disease as men is that estrogen limits the ability to convert thyroxine to real hormone. And so it's a really very irrational, unscientific thing to prescribe thyroxine for women. So then ladies with high TSH, they would try to find some kind of source of just a pig thyroid or beef or something? Yeah, if you have very high TSH, you at least benefit from suppressing that. T4 is fine for acting on your pituitary to ease off on the TSH, and that will greatly protect your thyroid from developing nodules if you just suppress the TSH. Because TSH itself, when it's elevated, is producing the symptoms that are associated with hypothyroidism. It isn't just the lack of metabolic activating T3 hormone. It's the actual positive direct pro-inflammatory effect of TSH itself. I had a good lady friend mention to me that her hair was starting to see some hair falling out, and I was kind of amusing that it was low thyroid. Is that close? That's undoubtedly the most common reason for thinning hair. There are fewer hairs because so many fall out, and the hairs that do grow if your thyroid is low are thin, frail hairs. I see. Excellent. Ted wants to know about systemic enzymes versus aspirin. Systemic enzymes are a blend of enzymes like seropeptase, pancreatic, bromelain, papain, and others when taken between meals. I don't know this word. Gets rid of the fibrin in the blood-dissolving blood clots and exonious proteins through the body. Does aspirin act in the same way? So systemic enzymes versus aspirin. Oh, well, the traditional way of getting those enzymes was to powder the pancreas gland of animals. Yeah. Pancreatic, right? Pancreatic. Yeah, that's a very good mixture of digestive enzymes that do help with things like preventing clots and inflammation. But since you can't heat the dried gland to sterilize it, there's always a risk of the animal having some kind of infectious disease. So essentially, pancreatic enzyme substances have to be still alive tissue, which means they could have bacteria and other pathogens. And the alternative is to use similar enzymes made by fungus. Most commonly, a fungus is used and that always leaves antigenic traces of the fungus itself. And so you have the potential to have an allergic reaction to fungal enzymes. So if you wanted to take systemic enzymes in between meals, is there anything you can use that is safe? I would go with the pancreatic. Just go and do the pancreatic? Yeah, despite the risk of infection. I wonder if they have organic, that might help, you know, I don't know. Yeah. They might, wow. Didn't Dr., who was it, Gonzalez, he did a lot of work with cancer, remember? And he used to do, he had the pancreatic enzymes, yeah. Dr. Kelly, Kelly was one of the pioneers in that, and it goes back to early 20th century. And that has fairly recently been supported by new types of studies that show that the pancreatic enzymes entering the intestine are actually reabsorbed into the system. So if you make them yourself properly, or if you take them as powdered thyroid or pancreas gland, you are actually getting those enzymes into the bloodstream, not just into your intestine. And so there's clear evidence that they do get into the bloodstream, act as proteolytic enzymes, just as I think it was Dr. Beard at the turn of the 20th century who advocated that as a cancer treatment, and Kelly and Gonzalez developed it and followed up. Interesting. So that would be the best pancreatic enzyme you can find that can really get into the bloodstream and do all the good things we like with enzymes, right? Yeah. Okay, and do raw foods do the same thing? I accept they are combined with a lot of antigens and indigestible material, so they can cause intestinal irritation, indigestion and gas and so on. Yeah, well, Martin is in Montana, great state. Can you ask Dr. Pete, what is a good cortisol, what is good cortisol levels and what is too high and what is too low? If you have lots of production of the protective steroids which are precursors to cortisol, pregnenolone and progesterone and a moderate amount of DHEA, those protect against cortisol but progesterone also functions the same way cortisol does so if you have enough of those you don't need any cortisol and so if you are vigorously producing steroids you should have a very low cortisol level. The stress of night time is what causes the cortisol level to rise around on. This is from Fabio, people have stated that COVID infects the intestines and that its long lasting effects from bowel inflammation can include coughing. Apart from experimenting with an easily digestible diet to reveal foods that are responsible, what supplements could be taken to stop persistent cough that leaves a person in dire need of oxygen? Yeah, serotonin is the major thing, inflammation of the intestine is responsible for the great bulk, more than 90% of all of the serotonin in the body is produced in the intestine and if it's irritated that increases and if your intestine is inflamed that interferes with your liver's ability to regulate the way the blood platelets handle serotonin and so the platelets which should be detoxifying the serotonin, taking it mostly to the lungs where it's destroyed, they can't handle the extra serotonin which then causes the blood vessel inflammation leading to clots and or hemorrhaging and so anti-inflammatory things, first very easy to digest foods but aspirin, ciproheptadine is an anti-serotonin that calms intestinal inflammation and keeping your CO2 up has the action of acidifying your platelets. And the acidic granules in the platelets bind to serotonin and allows the serotonin to be carried to the lungs and liver for detoxifying. And so the hyperventilation caused by the serotonin itself tends to drive off your CO2, causing your platelets to spill serotonin into the blood, causing the clots and blood vessel inflammation, carditis, and so on. All that stuff going on with the shots, right? With the injections, too. So, what about breathing into a bag to get more CO2? Can you do that? Yeah, that's the quickest, simplest way to get some. I've seen people control their hypertension, spending a few minutes every day. You can see the blood pressure come down the first or second days of doing that. Interesting. There's reports with an email of a doctor that had people that had their saturated oxygen levels down to 35 and lived. Can one's oxygen level go that low? And then if one uses carbon dioxide to saturate the body with CO2, this then helps the blood carry more oxygen. Is this partly due to the fact that CO2 would alkalize the body, raising the voltage to then carry more oxygen? In itself, it doesn't alkalize the body, but the bicarbonate, baking soda, for example, directly regulates the pH neither too high nor too low, and the CO2 has so many protective effects on blood vessels, on circulation through the lungs just by adding CO2 to a person with breathing difficulties. For example, on Mount Everest, they were putting people in a big body bag, adding oxygen as a way to bring them out of inflamed lungs and brain from the altitude, but someone noticed that in these airtight body bags, they were accumulating pretty high levels of CO2, it wasn't the oxygen, it was the increased CO2 curing the altitude sickness, and the same thing that happens in altitude sickness happens from the serotonin poisoning and inflammation caused by COVID and other degenerative diseases. Can you ask Dr. Pete how to cure, I'm going to spell it, P-A-R-O-N-Y-C-H-I-A. I don't know how to pronounce that. Could you say it again? Yes, sir. P-A-R-O-N-Y-C-H-I-A. Oh, sores around your nails? I'm not sure. I've never heard that one. Sometimes it's a vitamin deficiency. Just improving your diet, vitamin A. Sometimes putting vitamin A right around your nails. They have a word for that. They have a word for everything, right? Let's see, Dana, she's in New Jersey. I would like to know if eating farm-raised chickens four to five times a week harmful to one health due to high omega-6 content. I've heard chickens and pork have a high omega-6 and it can be harmful to one's health. Yes, definitely. Just by feeding them barley instead of corn and soy, the barley is lower in PUFA. Depending on the climate, there are many alternative foods that are lower in the PUFA content. The general inflammatory properties of chicken and pork, standard American pork, has more than 30% polyunsaturated fats in its tissue. Europeans don't like American pork because they say it has soft fat. You can see that when I was a kid, lard was a solid like butter that would stay in a block at room temperature. Now it's semi-liquid. And because of the feed? Yeah, eating too much corn and soy. But you did say that if you could find a pork producer that was like totally vegetarian grass, you know, the real deal, that's really low on all the bad stuff, right? Did you say that? Yeah, there are now, I've heard of three pig farmers that are producing pork fat that is solid. And the content of PUFA is approaching beef and lamb down around 4% or beef and lamb are about 2.5% to 3% PUFA. So the pork is, from those farms, it's essentially as safe as beef or lamb. Interesting. And you tell that when the fat is firmer and hard? At room temperature it should stay firm and white. Pretty cool. Yeah, I mean if you can get good pork, it's really quite a tasty and I guess it's a good protein if you're going to have protein. If you can get the good stuff. Does Dr. Pete have any suggestions for sagging skin and extremely dehydrated skin? All the water I drink just goes right through me, bathroom breaks nonstop. I don't consume any type of PUFAs. By the way, I'm a 40-year-old female. So here's a 40-year-old female, every time she drinks she just keeps peeing it out. What could be going on there? Yeah, the thyroid is the main thing that regulates hydration and oiliness of the skin. I think my camera just went off. That's all right. You don't need to see me. Let me put up Dr. Pete. Yeah, my camera just ran out of juice here. Let me put it up there. Okay. Well, so back to the thyroid again. My goodness. I wonder, can you conjecture how, just give an idea of how much any of this COVID fear, angst, whatever, you know, now we have, you know, Russia affects the thyroid. Can you talk a little bit about that? Yeah, anxiety is a constant suppressor of the thyroid. A great shock, the death of a close relative is often the trigger that turns a person's thyroid off. Or an accident, just the emotional shock is enough to knock out your thyroid. The body tries to go into hibernation to get away from the horror of the experience. I'm afraid that the fear campaigns from fear of nuclear war or whatever fear of a virus or fear of terrorists, all of those are being promoted actively by the government and the media and they're harming everyone's bodies as well as their minds. Yes, sir. I've been reading articles. It's like thyroid. It's like an epidemic right now. Mainstream media is talking about it. Yeah. Have you been listening to Dr. Boxxie's videos? Boxxie's? Boxxie? Sucharit Boxxie. Yeah, he's been on the show a few times, but I haven't checked in with him in a while. Is he talking about thyroid? No, not about thyroid, but he's a plain talker about what's going on with the virus and vaccines. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, we should get him back on. And you think he's right on? You like his work? Yeah, I heard him just a few days ago on the Children's Health Defense. Oh, yeah. Kennedy's group. Kennedy's group. And first of his talks, I didn't have any tiny disagreement with him. Over the last year and a half, he has investigated everything and now has a very, very clear picture of what's going on with the virus. And what is he saying, just in general? What's his take? It's a criminal hoax, essentially. That the whole thing was a hoax? The vaccine never was intended or conceived to prevent the infection. It can't, in principle. That's been known for more than 15 years. The people, the insiders, can't have been so stupid and ignorant as to ignore all of the evidence showing that the vaccine was purely, essentially, a manner of chemical warfare. Wow. And now, did you hear the latest talk? We have a sub-variant of Fauci. A sub-variant. A sub-variant. A sub-variant. Oh, that's the new one. Yeah, it's a sub-variant. Yeah. These people, they don't quit, you know. A couple more, then we'll let you go to work. Let's see. In his opinion, what causes lupus? Can anything be done to help with all the redness in the face and broken capillaries and veins in the legs? Oh yeah. I've been seeing people with lupus so-called do very quick recoveries. Just the last year I've been following a woman who was diagnosed with lupus and could hardly move because of arthritis and she just changed her diet and started supplementing thyroid and progesterone and avoiding the allergens and pro-inflammatory things, and it's all well. Its autoimmune conditions are very well defined as the results of too much estrogen, too little progesterone and thyroid. Let's see. How much protein is Dr. Pete doing? Is it going like 80 grams per day or less? I'm experimenting currently, trying to get it down to as close to 50 as possible for the... a low messianine, but it's my habits make it hard to get it down that low, so probably around 60 right now. So that would... where are you getting that protein from? What are you gonna... what are you gonna... Milk and even oatmeal has a surprising amount of protein in it. Is there a big advantage to doing like the... what do they call those, Dr. Pete? Steel cut oats rather than just the smashed up... No, I don't think there's any difference as long as you cook it thoroughly. Yeah, yeah, and then you can put butter and milk in there too if you want, right? Yep, very delicious. Might as well. Yesterday at work I was feeling great, my knees didn't hurt, but on the way home I ate four little cookies with no chocolate in them and by the time I got home I went into AFib. I did tapping on my hand and chest and I rubbed peppermint oil on my neck and chest. I took liquid magnesium and two aspirin and I did the carbon dioxide with the brown paper bag. After a couple hours I was feeling much better and slept good last night and my body was pooped out. Did I do good Dr. Pete with what I did even though the doctors would love to put me on pills? Is there any... if there's only way this happens in a blue moon or could the cookies have chipped this off? Oh yeah, irritation in the intestine is enough to send out inflammation signals that raise the free fatty acids in the blood and so carbon dioxide and grape or orange juice as a quick form of getting your glucose up to lower the free fatty acids. That is pretty effective first aid. Ray, your name, Ray wants to know how much orange juice... thanks for the show. He says I really enjoy having them on. How much orange juice does Dr. Ray Pete drink per day? Around a little over a quarter. Whoa, you drink a quarter of orange juice a day? Oh, in warm weather much more than that. Wow. I try to aim for that amount. Now I'm trying a combination. Maybe a pint of contoured grape juice and a little over a pint of orange juice. And the benefits for you? Uh, uh, uh, anti-inflammatory. Mm-hmm. Wow, that's the main benefit, anti-inflammatory. Mm-hmm. You can actually get, um, uh, organic, uh, not from concentrate, but some real grapes, right? It's a store, can't you? Uh, uh, yeah. Yeah. Uh, uh, Newton, uh, uh, Just Concord is... Just Concord, yeah....the best one I've found. Wow. Years ago, people used to do the grape juice diet. Did you ever do that? Did they ever just drink grape juice for a week? Oh, yeah. I knew people in the 40s and 50s who were doing that. Wow. And knew people who said they'd recovered from it. Oh, it was hard on them, huh? You don't want to do that? Two weeks, I think, was the thing to eat purple grapes or purple grape juice. Yeah. And it definitely lowers inflammation. Mm-hmm. One more just popped. Two more just popped in. What would Dr. Pete recommend to help someone resolve a chronic case of bruxism, which is when a person grinds their teeth while they sleep? Yeah, it can be hard on the teeth, boy. Things that improve digestion because nocturnal rise of serotonin from falling blood sugar and something irritating in the intestine causes the serotonin to rise, increasing nervous tension and symptoms like that. Uh-huh. And Karen wants to know, what are some good alternatives to eating oysters and shellfish? If they can't get those or don't like them. Oh, any way to get your selenium, that's the most likely thing that you'll lack if you don't eat any marine products. So even a selenium supplement can be helpful. Or Brazil nuts have selenium, but then you're back into the Pufa range, right? In the Pufa land? Yeah. All of the seafoods contain Pufa, so you don't want to overdo it. Mm-hmm. Well, Dr. Pete, we covered a lot of territory today. Thanks for your flexibility with coming on after your regular stint. And thank you. We really appreciate you coming on our show. It's an honor to have you here. Oh, okay. Thank you, sir. See you real soon. Okay? Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Bye-bye. Dr. Ray Pete, you can check out his newsletter at raypetesnewsletter.com. If I can get my thing up here and close out the show. Well, I think we're almost back to normal with our technical stuff. Stuff? Stuff? Technical stuff? I'm going to take a little day off, not that I need one. I've been off for two weeks, but working with this geeky stuff, you know, make your, you know, make your head explode, you know, on the phone with people. So I'm going to take a day off tomorrow. We take Thursdays off. I'll see you at the Farmer's Market today. The Dripping Springs Farmer's Market. See you then. We have Colostrum on sale 20%. Use promo code RESTORE. The hydrogen machine 20% off for this little puppy. Use promo code ONERADIO. Don't forget Shen Blossom. Didn't mention them today but it's just a wonderful company. I just made an order getting a whole bunch of things from Shen Blossom. Just great, great, great, great products. Don't or do visit them. It's on our front page, Shen Blossom. I think you'll find some really, really fun things there. He's got some wonderful minerals. Dr. P talks a lot about minerals. He's got some wonderful minerals from real food, real minerals. They have midnight minerals. You can take a night. It helps you sleep and helps your body do all the wonderful things it does while you're out traveling in the far country in your soul body. I love you all very much. Thank you. Thanks for your support. Appreciate all your kind messages during this time off. A lot of you were worried about me but we're fine. Where'd you go? We'll see you on Friday for our Friday edition. We should have lots to talk about because we haven't been on. See you Friday. Check in BitChute. We have all of our videos up there and then we're running archive shows that we're going to update here soon. The front page too. So stop by. Let me know if I can help with anything. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Love you all very much. Thanks. You're doing great. Don't believe anything out there. You know, whatever germs, COVID, nuclear war. It's all just crap. You know, it's all beer porn, man. Just all beer porn. They just want to make you crazy. Just don't buy into it. Hi, dude. We're going to go now. See you soon. I love you. See you Friday.