 BAH BAH BAH BAH From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com. Well a very pleasant good morning to you. Well that didn't work out right, hold on a second, something, one more thing here, oh I see. I can do it this way and then we'll, as I'm talking we'll figure it out here, no problem. This is OneRadioNetwork.com, my name is Patrick Timpone and it is the third Monday of the month at around 11.30 central or a few minutes behind here and we have the honor of talking to a fine gentleman, Dr. Ray Peete. He's a PhD, he's been around the circus for a long time in the field of health, he's got his PhD from the University of Oregon, specialization in physiology and... Hold on a second. Something's not working here. I got it. In Physiology, sorry. And he wrote his dissertation in 1972. He outlined all of his ideas on progesterone. He's got a website that we're going to tell you all about. He also has a newsletter and he has his little chat thing in there that people ask a lot of questions. He's just quite well respected around the world of natural healing and has been for a very long time. It's such an honor to talk to him on the third Monday because he's kind of a smart guy. He knows his stuff, does a lot of research. Dr. Pete, thanks for coming on the show. It's just such fun to talk to you. Thank you, sir. Okay. Yeah, thanks a lot. Well, I got to ask you because everybody in the world has seen the video, which I'm sure you have. Did a lot of people send you to watch the water video? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. What did you think about it? He has a lot of information both on snake venom and on the effects of the COVID virus. And he runs through them in parallel and shows a lot of similar reactions to each of them. And I couldn't quite get his central point of what point he was trying to make except maybe that the disease spreads through the water rather than through the air. But I think he was missing a very essential point. Stress, trauma of all sorts, poisoning, anything that damages the organism. Activates the phospholipases, it isn't just an oddity of COVID virus or cobra venom that activates the phospholipases that have all of those harmful effects. Anything harmful that excites the organism too much turns on those things. For example, when you activate one kind of phospholipase, you get the production of prostaglandins. The prostaglandins activate all sorts of inflammatory things. For example, the cytokine storm or inflammatory cascade is activated among other things by phospholipase. And that's what kills you from COVID and it's one of the things that can kill you with snake bite is systemic inflammation. So the phospholipase. Dr. Artis was talking about where did he say they found this and it exists as part of the cobra venom. Oh, it's part of the cobra venom, right, right. The thing is a bit confusing. We're going to have Dr. Artis on tomorrow. And I think one thing that happened to this whole thing, Dr. P, my understanding is that the people who produced this video, they are the ones that really took this whole thing into the water, right? Not him. He did not. But many people have been arguing since the video was out that if you had a venom protein, if I think I can get this right, that is a protein, that you could not take this internally and be a problem anyway. Is that true? Most likely, your stomach digestive enzymes would get it, right? Yeah, pretty much. So venom would have to be injected, correct? Yeah, for the full intensity of destruction. Right. Do you think it's possible that there could be the venom in this remdesivir? Oh, no, but like anything toxic, if you mess up your nucleic acids, that causes a series of problems and, among other reactions, it can activate phospholipids. So, again, phospholipase, how does this fit into this whole picture? I'm just quite sorry, I'm not the sharpest tool in the shed here on the phospholipase thing. When you eat something bad or get a cold, anything that starts an inflammatory process, be it in your intestine or your nose or even in your skin, that irritation activates the phospholipases. There are several different kinds, but the one that most people think about is the phospholipase A2 that liberates arachidonic acid from the phospholipids that are part of our structural system of lipids and proteins and water that make up the cell. So there's always a lot of phospholipids around to be acted on by the phospholipase and anything that disrupts your cells will activate that. And that liberating arachidonic acid immediately brings up your prostaglandins, which then activate many other cytokines and inflammatory processes. I see. And the other things that were mentioned, the monochronium, what are these? Do you know what I'm talking about? No. No, I'll find the piece on it exactly. So after all of these, we'll talk to Dr. Artis tomorrow. We're going to see if I can just pick this apart and see if we can get some clarity on exactly what he is saying. So I guess there's no way of knowing if there's some kind of a venom as well, Dr. Pete, in these injections, right? There could be. We don't know, do we really? An enzyme is something very easy to test for, so if there's an actual enzyme in something, it would be quickly identified. So if it was in there, there could be evidence of it, into the injection, right? Yeah, and that would be one of the possible adjuvants. If you stir up the phospholipases, that starts the inflammatory process, so that would be a kind of adjuvant for the vaccine. So after all of these, before we get to some questions, after all of these years, what has it been, two and a half years, as you sit back and look at the big picture, would you mind giving us your opinion, just your opinion of what you have seen and what you think? Much of this COVID, or some of it, or all of it was about, can you, would you mind? Yeah, for just about forever there have been colds of various varieties, and they're so fast changing that probably 30 or 40 years ago they pretty much. Gave up on the idea of having vaccines against the common cold, but the virus is extremely common for causing colds, and it's somewhat different from the influenza virus and other things that can cause pneumonia. But the cold virus has always killed a few people, babies that aren't very strong, especially very old people, often it has been nothing but a cold that it takes to kill a very old sickly person. So the cold is a good virus to start modifying if you want to create a weapon, for example, and that's why it was chosen by places like the Fort Detrick germ warfare lab and the North Carolina virus lab of Ralph Baric. A transmissible unit for putting all kinds of other things in to modify the effects so it isn't just a common respiratory infection type cold, but it can carry other inflammatory systems with it. So then you think there was something that was released into the air or is it just into these injections. Oh, yeah, the virus. It is a real coronavirus, but it has these segments with special functions of making the spike protein especially transmissible to humans. And Ralph Baric described the way he and his lab developed the transmissibility and the insertion of the spike protein and the modification of the spike protein. That's all public information, patent descriptions and so on. And who is this Ralph Baric? What is he, sir? What's his...? He's a professor, a researcher at University of North Carolina, tremendously supported by the government, Fauci in particular. Are you aware that if, how do you say, coaches postulates or any autopsies were done on these COVID patients to prove Baric's assertion that there was something released in the air that people got? Oh, in developing them, at first they were transmitted from animal to animal by contact, but then they let them develop in ways that until they could put animals in different cages and blow the air from one into the other and spread the virus. So it was definitely established in the lab to be transmissible through the air. And autopsies have been done on the natural or whatever the current COVID germ consists of and you can stain the tissues and show the presence of the virus getting into the lining of blood vessels, traveling to the intestine of the lungs and even into the blood vessels of the brain. So then do I hear you saying that the work of Lanka Cow and Coffin and all these people that say that it just, with the isolated things, it just, you don't agree with them. No, it doesn't matter that you can have a test tube, a picture of a certain virus. You can demonstrate its presence by multiple ways. You form antibodies to it and then you can detect it when it's connected to the tissues of the victim. Have you heard of Michael Palmer, a German colleague of Sutharit Bhakti? I know Bhakti, not Palmer. What's his name, sir? Palmer? Yeah. He has taught in Canada for a long time, biochemistry, but he worked on particularly the COVID virus and vaccines. In a recent video, he shows slides from the 15 autopsies that were done on vaccinated people. Bhakti has talked about that, but Palmer has the crucial videos that show that exactly what's happening is different between the vaccine and the actual virus infection. He has slides showing the staining of the virus with immunostains, attaching a colored material to an antibody that's specific for part of the virus, and then another set of stains specific for the spike protein. Bhakti shows that those can occur together, but you can distinguish them clearly. In these 15 autopsies, there are numerous cases in which it's clearly only the vaccine dependent spike proteins that are causing the deaths, the breakdown of blood vessels, for example, and the concentration of inflammatory blood cells around the identifiable spike protein. So it's the most graphically clear incrimination of the vaccine itself distinct from the viral disease causing the myocarditis, breakdown of blood vessels and clotting, hemorrhaging, injury, the whole range of things that have empirically been associated with vaccine injury. Now this specifically shows the presence in the tissues of the spike protein itself without any of the rest of the virus. Anything else? So do you then think that there are... people over the last two and a half years that experienced some kind of a bad flu, two, three weeks, and we've... I know people that have, right, that they... it was not a detox, or could have been, or... Could have been, yeah. Could have been, but they could have also somehow taken something in from the outside as well. So the people that Poo Poo Pasteur's thing, he was right in some way? Oh, sure, yeah. But before the COVID thing started at all, the CDC had been describing that how many tens of thousands of people were dying of influenza pneumonia every winter. That was used to herd people into getting the influenza vaccine. But then someone said, well, what is the evidence really that this is influenza killing them? The same question some people have asked about the COVID so-called virus. But when they had just reported something like 60,000 deaths this season from influenza pneumonia. And so someone suggested that they actually check for evidence that there was an influenza virus. They said, oh, well, yes, there were something like 1,200 deaths seasonally from influenza. And the others were from COVID, were from coronaviruses, was one cause, common colds probably. Bacterial pneumonia was another set. Syncytial virus pneumonia accounted for a big block of the deaths that had been called influenza. And unidentifiable pathogen was a major block of people dying of pneumonia and they couldn't find bacteria or viruses at all. So it could have been toxins of various sorts. A major source of pneumonia without germs is endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide, leaking out of the intestine. And so when anyone is seriously stressed, endotoxin tends to become one of the factors leading to pneumonia. So even in cases like pneumonia or common flu or colds, it could in many cases or some cases simply be a detoxification process and not people catching something. Well, detoxification protects you, but you could call it a retoxification process. Right. The body's retoxifying trying to get rid of it, right? Yeah. The endotoxin or whatever toxin is causing it. When you're very healthy, your liver and your brain in particular have detoxifying systems that keep you healthy. You don't notice the toxins being destroyed. You don't notice the toxins being destroyed, so that's why millions of people didn't wear a mask or nothing happened and they just felt fine and it was like any other day. Millions. Right? Because the body just deals with whatever it is, stress or whatever. Yeah, it can eat up germs and activate toxins and excrete them, get rid of them. Never knew it had them. But it is interesting that there are some people that I've known, two or three that I've known, that during this whole affair, what has it been, what, two and a half years now, that went through three weeks or so, taste, smell of some of the worst flu symptoms ever. I mean, they did, you know. They thought they were going to die. Yeah, a lot of it was the same causes of the flu that killed 40,000 to 60,000 people every winter before COVID. The post-influenza syndrome was already defined very similar to the post-COVID syndrome, leaving permanent fibrosis of the lungs and a general weakening of the organism. And even in those numbers, Dr. Raipete, that we see every year, there's no real evidence of how many people had comorbidities that have passed on and they claim it was because the flu or cold, right? I mean, we don't know. Oh, just roughly, yeah. It's sick babies and very old people always die of increased incidence of respiratory pneumonia during the winter season generally. So, I guess what artists originally argued on this show and other shows about the remdesivir, that's pretty nasty stuff, right? It's not good. Yeah, it's a gene-destroying material. The things that have been used for influenza and herpes treatments that were originated about 30 years ago, those... actually had very, very horrible side effects, but they came into use anyway. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Wow. And then... So the amount of people that were actually killed by remdesivir in the ventilators, that could be a big number. We don't know. Oh, yeah, the fact that the......comparison of two hospitals near each other in Germany during the first few months of the so-called pandemic, one hospital was influenced by a doctor who administered only the amount of oxygen through a cannula, just free breathing, that was clearly beneficial. They had zero mortality from the COVID cases. Oh, just enough oxygen, not the ventilator. Yeah, and a nearby hospital that followed the instructions of the World Health Organization and CDC, that hospital had a 60% mortality, just the difference was only that they stuck a tube in there. Chest and forced oxygen into their lungs, extremely high mortality once you stick the tube into them, and so that in itself was known to be almost always deadly, but prescribed, ordered by the CDC, so it was mass murder for a couple of months. Are they still doing that? Well, I'm afraid some places still do. They're still doing the Remdesivir and the ventilator, because they just don't get it, or they're ordered by the CDC, the standard of care, right? Yeah, there were many approaches better than Remdesivir, and any approach practically was better than intubation. What did these alternative things have for this so-called virus, as you say, like hydrochloroquine and what's the other one? Ivermectin. Ivermectin and all that. Do they have similar properties that something could be going on where people felt better? Oh yeah, they're both somewhat anti-inflammatory, especially ivermectin has several anti-inflammatory effects, so does aspirin and antihistamines. From the very beginning, people were seeing very good effects from aspirin and antihistamines. So aspirin and antihistamines are just anti- is that why aspirin has been around for the last hundred years or whatever? It's just anti-inflammatory? Yeah, but that's very closely connected to antibiotic and antiviral effect of aspirin. A general, not very specific, but definitely existing antiviral effect. But it doesn't go in and kill some so-called virus, right? What does it do with the body? It just helps the body to deal with whatever's going on? Yeah, when it's acting as an anti-inflammatory, it's preventing disruption of the immune system. Preventing disruption. Letting your immune system continue in a highly energized way. Once you go over the edge into the prostaglandin and cytokine storm degree of inflammation, you've knocked out the energy system. And instead of producing lots of heat and carbon dioxide and usable energy, you just produce lactic acid and shift away from oxidative processes. And oxidative processes are necessary for destroying viruses. Wow, so that's why you feel better when you take aspirin? For many, many reasons. It, for example, activates your mitochondrial respiration, the way thyroid does. Jim, when we were kids back in the fifties, Dr. Pete, I mean, that's really all we had was aspirin and castor oil. That was pretty much it, right? I mean, that was it. Yeah, and laxatives use is historical and turns out to be very well based because of the endotoxins. I mean, when you've eaten something that you can't digest or you get constipated, and inflammation begins inside your intestine, producing, among other things, lactic acid, histamine, serotonin, and those make your blood vessels of the, that should be a barrier against toxins in your intestine, lets them absorb the endotoxin, and that lowers your whole systemic body energy, and that can lead to death from pneumonia in a week first. So that's the whole theory behind, or not theory, but the mean behind this whole idea of the immune system, and that being in the gut that we've talked about, people have talked about for the last 25 years, right? That's what it's all going on, and why lots of bowel movements is a good thing. Moving things out. About 150 years ago, pathologists and the coroners recognized bowel inflammation as a major cause of death. Wow. And the bowel gets inflamed because these endotoxins are, when we don't have sufficient bowel movement in getting things out, it just creates a problem down there, an inflammation, and then it causes all kinds of issues. Yeah, leading to inflammation of the lungs and brain and so on. Wow. Which is why then you take a big hit of castor oil and wake up in the morning and have a big bowel movement, you feel better. Mm-hmm. Well, it's pretty simple. Yeah, there was a big campaign when medicine started becoming organized and modern, there were actual organized campaigns for public relations, getting press conferences and such, to convince the public that there is no such thing as a bowel toxin sickness. Really? And when was this? In the early days in 1900s? 1920s, early 20s. And they tried to convince people that it didn't matter how much you pooped, it just... Yeah, for example, one professor of medicine said that there's no such thing as bowel toxins causing sickness and headaches. He said it's all basically in your mind. And to demonstrate that headaches weren't caused by toxins, supposedly he had his medical students, he stuffed their rectums with wads of cotton. And the next day, the people who often had headaches reported that they had a headache. So he released a publicity that, see, we've demonstrated that it isn't poison, it's pressure. And that was just part of... it didn't say anything at all about toxins in the intestine, but just that whatever the level of toxins exists in the intestine, if you have pressure as well, you're going to get a headache or other sickness. Sure. And animal studies showed that just putting a balloon into the intestine, if the animal is in a good physiological state, you can blow up the balloon and nothing, no symptoms occur. But if you give them some insulin to lower their blood glucose and then blow up the balloon, the combination of the stress from low blood sugar combined with stretching the intestine will produce all kinds of things. Not just headaches, but epileptic seizures, asthma spasms, all kinds of psychosomatic changes of circulation and excitation. Isn't that fascinating? An uncle who's long gone from this planet used to say, well, I just have a couple cups of coffee and I have my morning constitution and I feel good. You think it's a detriment to people who use caffeine to go to the bathroom? Oh, no, not at all. It's just normal. It's kind of natural, right? Yeah, it has lots of other beneficial effects. Yeah, I've had some effects. Even a little bit of green tea will even move things around a little bit more. Isn't that interesting? I guess there must be some caffeine in green tea too, right? Yeah, a small amount. It's just weaker than coffee. Yeah, and you've never been adverse to coffee at all, right? You've always, as long as I've talked to you, thought it was okay, coffee, caffeine for people? Oh, sure. Yeah. It happened that when I was four years old, I just loved the smell and taste of coffee. Did you? Yeah. You've even, I believe you've said that coffee is actually something that'll get your little thyroid going a little bit, too, right? Yeah, it helps to balance everything. Helps to balance everything. You can't count on it making up for food. No. If you drink coffee on an empty stomach, it can give you the shakes and accentuate hypoglycemia. So that's why it'd be good with food, with breakfast or something like that, right? With breakfast, yeah. So before we do a break and get to all the questions, if you have a question for Dr. Pete Patrick, OneRadioNetwork.com. So on to the bowel thing. Do you think there's any cautionary tales?<|transcribe|><|transcribe|> With doing different things to keep the body movements going two, three, four times however you feel more comfortable like oh, what is cilium husk or other things castor oil is is there any problems with getting the body addicted to this stuff? Not really. No. Some people who have a really inflamed problem find that cilium husk Is the same thing vegetables? canned vegetables with the exactly the same vegetables What was that about? Material. Are a source of nutrition they often thrive. Once your metabolism has slowed down it actually slows your metabolism. Meat and protein diet is probably an evolutionary thing. And if you want to do a little thyroid and you want to do a little thyroid but the key is taking it at morning right upon waking midday or noon and then again right before bed so once twice or three times a day but always at those times and that's because that's when your body's naturally producing its own testosterone and all we want to do is amplify that sine wave we don't want to start to take testosterone at a time where our bodies purged it from the bloodstream instead we want to take it at a time where those levels are already spiking and we're just subtly helping to increase them this product tastes fantastic i think of it like an orange creamsicle and that's because in addition to that subtle pine flavor there's a little bit of orange peel tahitian vanilla bean cloves and then a little bit of maple syrup just to give it this nice kind of sweet orange flavor so it's really delicious and easy to take so if you're looking to increase your testosterone or androgen levels and you want an alternative to pharmaceutical testosterone replacement therapies there's nothing that does it better than pine pollen pure and we love this product i i've been taking well what i do and and what you should do are two different things but i'll tell you i've been i've been using it for years it's a food it's a pollen and uh little pine trees do their thing in the spring and pine pollen and all the animals and everybody eats it and who knows it's just a pretty magical substance but this is just one of the many products that Daniel Vitalis has in his store from one radio network if you can click on there and colostrum is one we love that product they now have four different uh colostrums chocolate vanilla strawberry and the original the original pine pollen shaga and rishi and these are fruited bodies they're not just you know they just really go to some great extent to make these uh more potent they have a vitamin d k 2 3 thing um also i digest a bitters products that we love um some cbd oil and also a cbd uh that for your skin which i just got and i've been playing around with it i like so just a great selection of products that i think you'll enjoy and that's at any survival link on one radio network dot com click through our website because we get a little commish when you buy through our website and that helps us to support ourselves as you know um you know one of the big buzzwords out there right now is inflation and there's a lot of it going around we think the real inflation rate is probably 15 18 percent yeah i know it's it's a little about eight percent more than what the gov is telling you um that's for the most part what we believe with the research that we do one of the places we like to go is shadow stats uh this fellow he does incredible research he's he's been doing it for a long time and name is escaping me but you know it's it's it's just much more but you don't need a government or anybody to tell you what the inflation rate is just go to the store and um you know we uh my girl here doodle was lying next to me a golden doodle uh she eats raw grass-fed organic beef many nights other than that it's organic raw chicken either wings or legs or and some cornucopia pet foods it's in a can that you can go there we don't have a financial interest in them but um cornucopia pet foods dot com 100 absolutely totally organic and if you want to feed them in the can and uh uh it's uh you know it's been cooked but hey uh it's you can't get 100 organic food in a bag in a kibble and we don't recommend kibble it's got a lot of issues i don't care how good it is but anyway uh that's here neither here nor there but i was just going to mention before i got so rudely interrupted by my mind is that um the meat that we're feeding doodle has gone up about a dollar 25 cents a pound just in the last month a pound so things are moving up uh the way to protect from inflation the only way that we know to hedge against inflation is gold and silver well platinum and stuff like that but the way the easy way to do it is gold and silver uh that is the only real money on this earth the rest of it is all just made up just made up so uh give fred a call 800-878-2646 800-878-2646 fred at uh u.s coin capital he'll hook you up with whatever you need just trust me on this one he's got the deal did you know the dna of the pearl and we humanoids are very similar did you know that the dna that's responsible to create the pearl is very similar to how our human calcium metabolism is done so it's very very interesting that's why the pearl is so good for our skins for our bones for even to rejuvenate our bone marrow rejuvenate our bones and rejuvenate our skins and also nerve systems you know joints all kind of muscles and like eyesight our eyes is a big muscle basically and also our heart it's very good for the heart it's quite interesting that she mentioned the pearl works to build the bone marrow and an ayurvedic medicine they've often talked about the idea when you build the bone marrow is when you build beauty and longevity curious pearl this is a great product you can brush your teeth with it and in my opinion you'll see amazing results on your toothies really amazing you can take it internally mix it with face cream our link on one radio network goes to a two-pack where you get a great discount but if you only want one to start just click around and you get yourself one pearl sim click on the ad on front page one radio network.com i get lots of compliments uh for my toothies and that the compliments is just an ego thing so don't doesn't mean anything but i'm only telling you that because you can really uh you can really see the pearlness of your teeth when you use this product it's great you can take it internally it's not all calcium but it's heavy calcium and lots of target proteins and it's from real pearl it's a living thing that Dr. Ruland Shu figured out how to she's a quantum physicist pretty cool gal very very cool lady she's going to be on soon she figured out how to uh get the pearl and get into a powder form without messing up the cellular matrix thing that makes sense she figured out how to do it and uh so it's not like she's using mother or pearl or something you know that you get on amazon it's it's it's a really nice product a once living source product pearl and it's on our website for your teeth and internally one radio network.com from the hill country in texas this is one radio network.com on the third monday of each month on the around 11 30 or so if i get there on time which i usually don't is dr ray peete phd and uh um and been um he started in the 70s doc is when you really began this right school i started graduate school in biology in 1968 1968 wow i had gone through a master's program in the late 50s but i worked in linguistics and art and literature for the intervening eight eight or nine years so were you out in the street uh demonstrated against vietnam war in 68 like i was oh sure oh yeah yeah we all were do you know it's interesting when you think back on that just for what it's worth uh i mean there was some real evidence that us crazy people out in the streets we actually moved nixon along a little bit didn't we i mean you know the evidence shows that they did he he got out of there sooner because we were out there uh yeah yeah we did well i guess for peaceful uh pro people peaceful protest does a little good now and then yeah like the trekkers convoy right it's moving things along yeah i think so too so are you ready for some questions sure all right here we go um uh let's see several people in the natural health community say that supplementation with inorganic minerals not directly derived from foods or once living sources always going to ask about that are just kind of unhealthy and can do calcification in the arteries and organs did dr pete agree with this idea it would depend on the source a lot of mineral sources are very contaminated so that's the the main argument against them when they're incorporated into living organisms they're already extremely highly purified and so they're they're safe in that form wasn't the max planck people you know them max planck institute years ago suggested that when we take something in from a other than living source it can be detrimental correct yeah there are many studies showing that even the type of isotope within a given element it can be chemically pure in the chemical sense but have the wrong balance of isotopes isotopes yes the typical molecule comes in the standard form sometimes it has an extra neutrino extra neutron so the atomic weight is a little different and those are just randomly mixed together in the uh mineral sources but a plant uh sorts out and prefers uh certain isotopes over the others so it's it's the ultimate and find not just chemical purity but a bias in the weight of the a particular chemical element the weight and the energetics of it from the living is just different just yeah for example the cane sugar grown in the tropics from the first rain that comes out of a warm ocean has more deuterium it's a heavier form of water and high deuterium content accelerates the aging process in the early 50s when heavy water was being used in the nuclear industry no one had studied it biologically so they gave experimental mice deuterium oxide rather than ordinary water and they turned gray and got arthritis and deteriorated much faster because of the different isotope but organisms plants filter out the preferred isotope apparently for every element that has a significant difference in atomic weight if you use uh sugar that was grown in a northern and either central or eastern region where the rain has the tropical rain has fallen out and then coming over the rockies for example the cold temperature the cold temperature squeezes out even more of the heavy water so the any water that's left over the northern plains is likely to be very depleted in deuterium and so the crops especially sugar beet growing in those areas is has more light water which is biologically more compatible very interesting what's the deuterium doing in there i mean that's kind of like a mother nature thing i mean why is she putting deuterium in there i mean why would she do that all of these atoms come in more or less a random arrangement of the distribution of the neutrons and protons it's just a random thing as far as i know somebody sent me a link to a website from lip gloss that actually they have some snake venom in the lip gloss that's used to make the lips more swollen that the hollywood people like have you ever heard of that? i don't know what that's about why would snake venom swell up your lips i guess it would yeah anything that causes inflammation inflammation yeah okay here's one for you how to gain weight i'm a 66 year old female long covid digestive symptoms pain in location of the pancreas liver fullness fatigue have to lie down too tired to complete more than some of the basic activities fat malabsorption fall asleep after eating wow so this lady's got a lot going on here first thing would be to check thyroid function and body temperature very low body temperature depletes your ability to make energy and so if your body temperature is very low you would want to have a blood test to see in particular TSH which causes inflammation if it's high and vitamin D deficiency of which causes inflammation and under metabolism vitamin D deficiency right do you know a number like if people want to do a vitamin D test that you like or oh yeah in nanograms per milliliter it should be around 50 or 60 50 or 60 per milliliter nanograms per milliliter do you think we can get enough from the sun? what was that? do you think we can get enough from the sun? oh yeah a person who spends for example on the beach a person spending hours a day with a lot of skin exposed to full sunlight will have maybe 150 wow yeah I'm out in the sun a lot, it would be fun to take it just to see as an experiment you know to see what the levels are, it would be interesting there's a place for those of you who are interested it's called Let's Get Checked and it's online and they actually will ship you a little thing and you can get your thyroid TSH test or vitamin D very inexpensive, you don't have to go anywhere yeah some places will charge you more than $200 for a vitamin D test should be somewhere in the range of 40 to 60 right, I did my TSH doc with them and it was like 50 bucks or something TSH and again for those who are new to Dr. Pete's work and he's done quite a bit on thyroid your favorite TSH level is... Close to zero. Close to zero. Right. You are the lowest one than anybody we've ever talked about. Why is that? I've been attending to the TSH issue ever since it came into use. First, when synchroid substituted for armor thyroid, armor had been the standard of thyroid potency for about 50 years. Then, when synthetic thyroxine was developed, a huge advertising campaign convinced doctors that the T3, they didn't know at the time that T3 was the only active thyroid hormone. They said, scientifically, you should use the pure thyroxine, not the random mix that you find in the armor thyroid. They used a blood test, protein-bound iodine, and found that only 5% of the population was deficient in protein-bound iodine. So they said, almost no one needs a thyroid supplement, but when they need it, thyroxine should be the thing. And using the meaningless protein-bound iodine test, all through the 1950s into the 1960s, they were saying, almost no one needs a thyroid supplement. And it turned out that there was absolutely no biological basis for saying that protein-bound iodine had anything to do with your thyroid function. At that point, they were convinced that T4 thyroxine was the only scientific way to treat thyroid and that only 5% of the people might need it. And so they discovered very… …precise ways of measuring TSH using radioimmunoassay, and so they picked out the 5% of the population who had the highest TSH and said, that's the number that is justified to give thyroxine to. But it was entirely phony based on a meaningless test that that 5% of TSH was established. So ever since the 1960s, that has been refined, discouraging, literally telling doctors to ignore all of the traditional signs of hypothyroidism, to ignore body temperature, all of the signs like falling hair and problems maintaining the weight, either being too thin or too thin. Ignore all of those, go only by TSH, but without looking at the history of it. It might sound scientific in some way, but it's totally irrational. Irrational. So where are we? Go ahead. It turns out that TSH directly activates inflammatory systems, and a lot of the symptoms of hypothyroidism come from elevated TSH, not from an actual deficiency of thyroxine. An elevated TSH. So where are we now? The original one, Armor, was the good stuff, right? That was the best? Armor, yes. But that's no longer available, correct? Oh, it's still available, but when the Armor Company sold out in the early 90s, they had been testing every batch. They had both pork thyroid, beef thyroid, and a mixture. And every batch was tested for biological activity on mice, so it was refined right down to 1% of effect on metabolic rate. It was scientifically ultra-precise. During those years when the synthoid people were saying, don't use a natural product, it isn't scientifically refined enough. During those years, there were times when the thyroxine activity of synthoid was off, I think, by as much as 40%. Wow. So Salarmer and Synthroid are the two choices for folks now who get prescriptions, right? Oh, yeah, there are lots of synthetic thyroxines. Okay. And most of the mixed synthetic products have been discouraged, taken off the market. But the one that's the closest, it was based on the armor, typical armor ratio of T4 to T3. That's Seno Plus. Seno Plus. A four to one ratio of T4 to T3. And you can get that in this country or is that a Mexican thing, Seno Plus? Mostly it's I think made in Mexico and it's popular in Latin America and somewhat in Europe. So if you had to take it, wanted to take it, that's what you would go for, the Seno Plus? Yeah. I wouldn't hesitate to take armor even though they really don't pay attention. Get a little fishy with the numbers, huh? Yeah. So now when you see there's some products out there that are over the counter, well, you can get them through docs but not necessarily totally over the counter. Where it says bovine, I have something here, I had on the shelf, it says bovine, L-Y-O-P-H-I-L-I-Z-E-D, freeze-dried bovine, what's in here? You don't really know. The people making it aren't aware of the history of the armor definition. And at first, at the end of the 19th century, the thyroid was used in a fresh form, not freeze-dried. And in that form, it was two-thirds water. And so when they dehydrated the gland without altering it except to take out the fat, the armor product was extended with lactose bound into a pill, and they added about two parts of lactose for every part of powdered thyroid so that it had the same weight ratio to potency that the fresh gland had because it was a widespread standard of dosing. So when they say one grain dose, it was for 50 years the world standard. Our armor was basically one-third active, and so if you used the pure powdered glandular, it was called 3X because it was three times as strong as the fresh or the extended product with lactose. But now the concept of 1X or 3X is used only by chemical suppliers like, I think, Aldrich and Sigma use those categories. But the people selling it don't know what they're selling, basically, whether it's 3X or 1X. So you might get super strong stuff or very weak stuff. Well, so you would, if you wanted to go that route, you would just have to take it and see what's your body temperature and see how you feel and your metabolism, right? Yeah, which you always had to do with armor anyway because everyone has a different requirement. Right, right. So is there, I mean you know any sources of just a bovine or pig that are just not desiccated or freeze-dried that are just like a powder you could take? Yeah, but I don't know of any way to be sure whether you're getting 3X or 1X or maybe one-tenth X. The Seno Plus, I used to have some of those. I sent those to a friend that needed it. I didn't need it any longer. But they were just little guys if I remember, right? Little tiny ones? Yeah. And how many grains are in that one? About two and a third I think it was. Wow. Grades equivalent to one tablet. So it's right up there, right? So that's 60, 120, maybe 150 or 160 or 70, right? Yeah, and so people often not realizing how potent they are very often overdose on their Seno Plus, you should start with an eighth of a tablet. Yeah, and just kind of work your way up. So just to wrap up on thyroid, if people wanted and need to get their TH level down there to close to zero, they're going to do okay in your opinion with the Synthroid or Armour, right? Well, with Synthroid, women are much less able to activate thyroxin turning it into T3. So they'd be better with Armour, the ladies? Yeah. Wow. All these landmines out there, Doc, how do people figure this stuff out? Unfortunately, the researchers generally have failed to notice that because of estrogen level, women's livers are much less likely to fully activate the thyroxin. And so sometimes a woman can get more and more hypothyroid the more thyroxin they take because it begins diluting the T3 that came out of their own thyroid glands. And if their liver is blocked by estrogen, they can get worse by taking more thyroxin. Thank you, Doc. That's just, wow, just crazy. You would think, Dr. Pete, that these people would understand this thing and really dig into it if you're making these things, wouldn't you? You would think it's the same as the propaganda and the virus thing. Yeah, who knows? Here's a 68-year-old male who recently had a thumping in his head, ooh, like a faint heartbeat, but it doesn't follow the heart. Rather, the thumps maybe 240 times per minute. That's a lot of thumping. No other symptoms. Does Dr. Pete have any ideas what this could be? Lots of thumps in his head, not going along with his heart. Basically, I don't know, but I've experienced some things and found that occasionally there would be a resonance with something that I wasn't hearing through my ears, but by resonating through my sinuses, something in the environment that happened to be vibrating at a different frequency from my heart. I would hear this ticking, wondering why my heart rate was doing one thing and the ticking in my head was doing something else and found it turned out to be something in the environment just resonating with my head. Dr. Pete, do you have an opinion regarding Dr. Lester Morrison's research indicating heart disease could be reversed as well as prevented with chondroitin sulfate? No, I'm very skeptical. That would improve heart disease. Oh no, atherosclerosis is an inflammatory condition that affects your heart at the same time as the blood vessels. But people have removed the plaque and chemically stained it and found that it's full of breakdown products from polyunsaturated fat, age pigment basically. Do we get too many poofers more than we want just by eating fish? Yes, you eat too much fish. That's why I advocate only the low-fat fish. Low-fat fish, which are, what are some of your low-fatters? Cod and sole. Cod and sole are the best ones, call it cod and sole. That's why the salmon are, they got a lot of poofers in there, right? Mm-hmm. Yeah, good old poofers. Ah, let's see, here's someone, um... Okay, I don't understand this one. Sorry. I read that it takes about 40 to 56 days for skin cells to turn over from stem cells to disquamination off the surface of a follicle hypokeratosis and I started supplementing vitamin A for it. I'm sorry, did you understand those words? Yeah. Okay, in Dr. Pete's experience, how does vitamin A supplementation, how long does it take to clear skin problems like follicular hypokeratosis? I've had experience with the leukoplatia, which is on the moist surfaces, for example, inside your cheeks, it can, the cells get swollen and waterlogged and they can stick out so that you bite your cheeks unavoidably. But that's considered a precancerous condition. But I found that whenever I was extremely deficient in vitamin A, I would get leukoplatia and so I tested it with, if I took 50,000 or 100,000 units of vitamin A just for two or three days, it would disappear completely. So it depends on how deficient you are and what caused your deficiency. Estrogen happens to accelerate the turnover and the formation of the dead teratine state of the cells and vitamin A has an anti-estrogen effect on the skin, slowing the turnover, creating less of the dandruff effect and it's very easy to see on the wet tissues like the uterine cervix. Leukoplatia is sometimes an excuse for doing a hysterectomy, but just putting a vitamin A on topically in just a few days, same as inside your mouth, it can totally abolish the white abnormal cells. Lawrence wants to know, he says I'm 56, good health, but every now and then I get a little purple kind of a dot or square on my forearm, what could this be? Weak capillaries. Weak capillaries. That's kind of a young age for it happening. Even 80 or 90 year olds it becomes very common so that a 90 year old will typically have those from red to brown splotches covering their surface fairly well. What are some things that Lawrence could take to strengthen his capillaries? Keeping your cortisol low, avoiding unopposed estrogen causes your adrenals to overproduce cortisol and underproduce DHEA, pregnenolone and progesterone. Keeping your cholesterol up as a precursor to pregnenolone and DHEA, that toughens all of your connective tissues and your capillaries. Keep Mr. Cholesterol up so I have lots of eggs, good? Carbohydrates are how we make cholesterol. Carbohydrates not the eggs, carbohydrates. It takes lots and lots of eggs to raise your serum cholesterol for just a moderate amount of extra carbohydrates can do it. Like oats or rice? Yep, just making sure they're well cooked so they digest easily. Very interesting. Fascinating. This is great fun. Any remedies for inguinal hernia surgery is not an option, I-N-G-U-I-N-A-L, hernia. What is that? They happen, right? DHEA falling in relation to cortisol is going to weaken all of your connective tissues and the vitamin D deficiency, it isn't just the bones that are strengthened by adequate vitamin D, but all of the connective tissues and muscles are weak in the vitamin D deficiency. Second thing is to make sure you're getting enough calcium and vitamin D and then if that's adequate then check to make sure you don't have an excess of cortisol and estrogen relative to the pregnenol and DHEA. What are some things that people do to get too much estrogen, what do they eat? Stress basically. Stress, pretty much. Yeah, hypothyroidism, B vitamin deficiency can do it, various kinds of poisoning. Is there any downsides to taking a little extra vitamin D just to make sure you're topped up? Is that a problem? I don't think so, 5,000 units a day. Some doctors say that's excessive, but I've never seen anyone get a very high blood level from 5,000. What can be done for scoliosis is protein involved as well as calcium and vitamin D. Yeah, and thyroid. And thyroid, that old thyroid again, boy. So that's the deal, you want to get that TSH down to near zero, as close to zero as you can, Doc, right? I think so, as long as you're eating well. Can you explain a little bit? If you take a lot of thyroid, you can get your TSH down very low, but also your metabolic rate is increasing, and so you have to make sure you're getting enough of the vitamins and other nutrients. I see. Okay, here is somebody, let's see, huge blister on the front of my shin just above the ankle. It has been at least nine months and it's still red even though the liquid has drained out. Now there are small red spots, rash kind of looks like tiny red pimples. Any ideas what I could do? Could this be some kind of toxin coming out? Or possibly an infection. I think it should be tested, have a doctor take swabs and such to see what's happening. See what it is, right. Hold on, my mouse is not working. Do something, hold on. My email thing just crashed, don't mind me. Here we go. Hi Patrick, we asked Dr. Pete what he thinks of... berberine for diabetes to lower blood sugar berberine berberine what was the word berberine b-e-r-b-e-r-i-n lowering blood sugar I don't recognize that word yeah I've seen that somewhere but I don't know what it is either doc berberine berberine no hmm I don't either um how much total phosphorus intake um matter if the diet has a good calcium-phosphorus ratio is a low phosphorus diet preferable to a normal phosphorus diet if the calcium-phosphorus ratio is exactly the same in both cases if both of them are extremely low, then it's possible to be deficient in both of them but in the normal range, it's the ratio that counts most um you know the which last month you had mentioned that you were dubious about a lot of the the creams right the bio identical hormone creams oh yeah yeah boy we had a lot of emails about that saying that i don't think here's one my group uses a biometric hormone replacement protocol that replicates the youthful rhythms all hormones are creams based in the in the woman is intact they will so there's people that are suggesting that maybe that they do okay on these Even if it's going to cause cancer, it might make you feel okay for 10 or 20 years, but you really should think ahead what's happening and look at the research historically on what the safe levels and rhythms are. For example, all through the 1940s, experiments were being done on the rhythm of estrogen effect in relation to cancer. If you gave even a very small dose of estrogen continually, it had a very high rate of questionization of all of the organs and tissues. But if you interrupted it regularly about once a month, then it was harmless. And the function of progesterone is to knock out the estrogen system, stopping the synthesis and the receptor response to it once a month prevents cancerization of all of the tissues. So that's something that I didn't dig into last time when you mentioned that. It wasn't necessarily that they weren't absorbing, but it was the potential cancerous effects on the topical progesterone, correct? Yeah. You really should look at your blood levels, but even the blood levels in a deficiency of progesterone, the enzymes that regulate estrogen are inactivated. Progesterone activates the enzymes that attach substances to estrogen to make it inactive and to excrete it. And at the same time, progesterone is inactivating estrogen. It's knocking out the estrogen receptor and turning off the aromatase enzyme that makes estrogen. So there are close to 10 different enzymes regulated by progesterone with an anti-estrogen effect. And so if your progesterone is inactive, it's not going to be able to excrete any estrogen. The enzymes that are excreting estrogen don't remove it from cells, so the estrogen inside cells can go wild, leading to cancer, but it doesn't show up in the blood because it isn't being excreted, it's being formed right in the tissue. The uterus and the breast, for example, were thought of as target tissues for estrogen coming from the ovaries. But in rat experiments, if you take out the ovaries, wait a week, the serum estrogen is just as high as it ever was, because in the absence of progesterone, all of your tissues begin secreting, forming and secreting estrogen. But the uterus and breast, instead of waiting to be stimulated by ovarian estrogen in the absence of progesterone, they begin forming their own... estrogen locally. So, in endometriosis, for example, the uterus begins forming estrogen that doesn't have to depend on the ovarian estrogen. And a thyroid deficiency and a progesterone deficiency will increase endometriosis and eventually cancer by the internal... uterine production of too much estrogen, same in the breast. The breast tumor begins producing its own estrogen, doesn't need getting estrogen from the blood. So that's why you have often recommended just a little dab for men and women, if I'm correct, this progestes, that one that you kind of developed. Yeah, it should be used intermittently for about half to two-thirds of the month against a background of adequate vitamin D and thyroid so that you aren't overproducing estrogen in the so-called target organs. Fat muscle, uterus, breast, everything can take over the production of estrogen. And so it's very hard to imagine how any tissue could conceivably suffer from an estrogen deficiency because when it's under stress, not getting adequate thyroid and progesterone, every tissue can become a source of estrogen. My goodness, wow. Catherine is in Canada. She says, I'm 35, I had my appendix removed at the age of 9, ruptured. I've read that the appendix is an immune organ and is involved in replenishing good gut bacteria, digesting fiber and helping to produce fatty acids. I'm curious what this might mean for my metabolic health and how to maximize my health, digestion and immune function with this organ, without this organ. Yeah, every little bit of the body matters. You can get along without various parts, but not as well. You just have to pay a little closer attention to eating digestible foods, keeping your thyroid and vitamin D and general nutrition at an optimal level. But considering everything, the lack of an appendix isn't a terrible problem. Okay, good. I heard Dr. Pete mention on a past show that a stressful event can just turn the thyroid off or the trauma and of a daughter who has gone through a stressful period when younger and her thyroid is turned off, very low body temperature, hormonal issues, depression. She's living in the country where there's no way to get any thyroid supplements or progesterone as Dr. Pete usually likes. So are there some natural things to help to get her thyroid working again? Well, I mean, you can get things through the mail, right, Dr. Pete? Sure. So, yeah, you can go by his advice and just get things in the mail. I mean, this Sinoplus, what's the name of that place in Mexico, the Sinoplus, do you remember? Oh, yeah, there are two of them. One, the original Farmacia del Nino up near the border, it's a little corner pharmacy. Very helpful people you can talk to on the phone. And there's a big pharmacy in Mexico City which took advantage of the name, but they changed it to Farmacias with an S, del Nino dot MX. And they have the advantage of being close to an international airport so they can give slightly faster service. I see, so we had the original, the Farmacia del Nino, that's near the border, a small one, and then the, how do you spell Farmacia, how are we spelling that? F-A-R-M-A-C-I-A. Del Nino dot MX for the big one, right? With an S, Farmacias. Oh, they changed the name to an S, good for them. I see. It's really good to learn a moderate amount about thyroid function, you'll very likely in a day or two know far more than your doctor knows. Hmm, flushing seems to increase throughout the day and is worse by the end of it where I have a constant red glow. Histamine, exclamation point, Rochea? Yeah, and low thyroid people often have that extreme ability to release histamine. They've got red ears and red cheeks and so on. Can you ask Dr. Pete what recommends a thyroid if we don't want to do the Mexican? I think we've been over that, right? You can get bovine thyroid desiccated, but then you don't know. Do they have the mix in those things? I don't think if I asked you, the T4, T3, we just don't know how strong they are. Is that the downside? Yeah, if it's actual glandular material, the ratio will be somewhere between 3 to 1 and 4 to 1, but the question is how pure it is and whether it has been diluted and standardized. So it's very good to be cautious and take maybe something like 15 milligrams of the powdered material. Just a little bit for a test and see how you feel and get your body temperature. So the body temperature is really mission critical. This is something you can do first thing in the morning. Is this a very good, you use your words, marker for thyroid function? uh... Yeah, temperature and heart rate, first thing in the morning. And the temperature, normal, or where we want it, minimum, what is it, is it 97.7? Something around that. And then after eating breakfast, it should fairly quickly come up to 98.5, and later in the day, it's okay if it gets to 99. Do you think breakfast is important, something substantial? Carbohydrates, since your morning cortisol is almost always high, it's a response to low blood sugar during the night. The more you use up your stored glycogen during the night, the higher your morning cortisol is going to be. So, getting it down quickly with something like orange juice or oatmeal is a good idea. Oh, so orange juice actually gets the cortisol down. Getting your blood glucose back up. Oh, your blood glucose back up. But what about that high cortisol in the night? It's going to take the oats to do that? If your thyroid and progesterone are good, you can make it through eight or ten hours of sleep without getting hypoglycemia. But some people wake up in the night and have some milk and orange juice. Boy, I tell you what, I don't know what it is, but for me, if I wake up in the middle of the night and do some like raw goat's milk, you know, just warm it a little bit, shoot. Boy, it's like manna from heaven, Doc. Yeah, it's ideal. And I put sugar in it, though, too, you know, the organic beet sugar. Yeah, it's very good. A couple more, then we'll let you go. Let's see, Dr. Peet talks a lot about milk is milk estrogenic, cows are injected with artificial hormones to produce more milk. What effects do these hormones have on the human? All traces of harmful pesticides, herbicides are found in milk. Well, you can get good milk, though. You don't have to get milk with all shut up, right? Yeah, a lot of places now make it evident that they don't give their cows hormones. Sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. Robert wants to know, is it possible to reduce the enlarged prostate? Oh yes, thyroid and aspirin. I will generally do it fairly quickly. Thyroid and aspirin, good old aspirin. And making sure your vitamin D is okay. Well, Dr. Pete, thanks so much. We kept you a little long, but we had so much fun. Thanks for being here, and tell folks about your website, which is DrRayPete.com, right? Or RayPete.com? Yeah. RayPete.com. And your newsletter is RayPete's Newsletter. RayPete's Newsletter, Gmail.com. At Gmail. Gmail.com. And you're doing about three, four, six times a year now on those? Four times a year now. Four times a year. So it's only $10 a year. What a deal. Dr. Pete, thank you, sir. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. You take care. What a nice guy, huh, man, I'll tell you what. When I grow up, I'm just going to be Dr. Right-Bean, I don't want to do that, come on, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hold on a second, come on, give me a break here. What's going on? There it is. I don't know what happened there, but my finger had a bad hair day and my mouse. Well, what a wonderful fellow he is, and I think we got to most of them. We got most all of them today. Okay. Well, we're going to go where no man has gone before. Well, actually, a lot of people have gone before, but we're going to talk to Dr. Brian Artis tomorrow on the 19th, would it be the 19th of April, and dig into the vellum thing. But the more and more we see it, well, we'll just get into it tomorrow. There's no sense talking about it now, but I think he's a good man. I know he is. He really broke the deal on the resveratrol thing, and I think there's a lot of things that were going on with the production company of this Watch the Water video that were beyond Dr. Artis' control, which is what I began to understand after. So, everything's good. There's no snake venom in the water, and no evidence of that. Now, what's in the injections of the vaccines of remdesivir? We'll talk to Dr. Artis about that tomorrow, but there's nothing in the water other than all the yuck stuff that's been in the water. For the last 50 years, chlorine and whatever. So clean up your water. A lot of people say the best thing to do is just distill it. There's also a lot of viewpoints on everything. The other viewpoint is to reverse osmosis, or if you distill it, to structure it up again. We, us, we take distilled water and we bubble it in our hydrogen-browns gas machine, which I didn't even mention today, which I'll get a little plug in before we go. This is the water that we drink, and we think it's the best because it, it just... It structures it beyond anything, anything's going to do, and this is the water that we drink. It's molecular hydrogen water through the Brown's gas machine. Brown's gas machine. And this is the AquaCure machine, promo code 1RADIO, 20% off. This is the only water that we drink now. You can make it easy in about 10 minutes, and you can drink as much as you want, and it's especially good to drink this water, a lot of it before you eat, about half an hour. It gets everything happening in Mr. Tummy, promo code 1RADIO, 20% off on the AquaCure Browns gas machine. Now, you're going to find, you will find. Many, lots of Browns gas, well, no, you're going to find lots of hydrogen machines out there, very few Browns gas machine, and that's just a leveraged hydrogen machine that George figured out how to do. It's got the fourth phase of water thing that Dr. Pollock has talked about. This is why this water is very hydrating, extremely hydrating, hydration hydrogen, whoops, how does that work? And... We think it's the best water ever to drink. You can make all the water you want and then breathe the gas, and we do both, and get this machine 20% off. They're a little backed up there, so you're not going to get it in a week or so, but he's doing better. People are getting it quicker than we thought. Just you can order it right now, the Browns Gas Hydrogen Machine, aquacure machine, George Wiseman. As I was saying before, I was so rudely interrupted by my mind, there's a lot of machines out there. Most of them are just hydrogen, not Browns Gas, and they are, some of them are less expensive, and just beware, George has a lifetime warranty. Lifetime warranty, a one-year, no-questions-asked-money-back warranty, and also safety features on his machine that very few people have, I don't have any. And hydrogen's a very powerful molecule, hydrogen buses, hydrogen balloons, you know the Hindenburg that blew up? This machine is not going to blow up. He's got lots of safety features. They're very safe. And he's got safety features. They'll turn off if anything goes silly, or they get low or high. So, you can get one cheaper, but I don't recommend it. I recommend ours, the AquaCare machine, on oneradionetwork.com. Promo code ONERADIO, 20% off. Failed to plug that during Dr. Pete. Ah, black helicopter. We don't hear a lot of helicopters around here. There it goes. Alright, kids, we'll see you tomorrow. Brian Artis and then George Altgold. We're going to be talking a lot about food, growing your own food, but also some of the yes-no maybes in the food supply that maybe we want to think about. I will see you tomorrow. I love you all very much. Thank you for your ongoing support. Definitely appreciate it. Don't forget today's Tax Day. Midnight tonight is your deadline if you want to file your taxes and not pay any penalties on any money that you owe the boys. As I've said many times and I'll continue to say, taxes are totally unconstitutional. They're taken by force. But do it because they'll clean out your bank account or come and get your money and your eldest child and your, you know, if you don't. So, just do it. I love you, Dad.