 So we'll see you really next week showing Tyler in a bit more detail. nothing is more expensive than bad information know the source one radio network calm well a very pleasant good afternoon to you it is high noon here on one radio network calm and this is the summer solstice to June 21 2021 very pleasant good afternoon to you it is the third Monday of the month and that brings us right after Dr. Massey to a gentleman who is really a legendary legendary person in the world of health and nutrition his name is Dr. Ray Pete he's been at this for a very very long time PhD in nutrition and was studying hormones and progesterone and all these cool things he did his dissertation and it's just an honor to have him each month and we have so many questions we have people just save up their questions for Dr. Pete and we had some rains here of the last two weeks and the telephone they're just all out they've been out for two weeks here in the country but we've tried the zoom audio and I believe that Dr. Ray Pete is there Dr. Pete can you hear me okay good morning yes yeah keep that close to your mouth there so we can hear you sir okay okay well in this last month since we visited with you in the month of May the third Monday have you come across new information on this whole covert phenomenon are the injections that she feels important to talk about I think it is just the last two or three weeks that the information from the Japanese study of the movement of the vaccine in the body that I don't think had come out the last time we talked. Dr. Bridal, a virology professor in Canada, I think is the first one who publicized it. It was known to the regulatory agencies from the very beginning, but they kept it secret. And under a Freedom of Information request, Dr. Bridal... got it and has made it public, are showing that they supposedly believed that the vaccine was going to stay in your shoulder muscle and not travel in your general circulation. That was part of the basis of thinking or claiming that it would be a safe treatment or vaccine. But in fact, the study, right from the beginning, before it was approved, this Japanese study showed that the vaccine material travels into the general circulation and is concentrated in various organs. The ovaries, the bone marrow, the heart, the brain, and the spleen. And that totally changes the nature of the treatment. The vaccine idea is that you have the immune system picks up an exposure to a toxin or a virus or bacteria, and that it's the immune system that carries the information systemically so that it's only the immune reaction that becomes systemic. But the facts show that the messenger RNA particle encased in a lipid coat actually travels through the circulation, and so it is implanting the RNA message to make the spike protein into our bone marrow cells, for example, and the ovaries. And information in the bone marrow cells is going to be lifelong. The bone marrow is turning over constantly, making new cells, replicating the RNA. The ovary concentration means that it's going to be a long, long, long, long, long, long is going to be a risk for the next generation. But if you think about what chronic spike protein irritation or inflammation is going to mean for the bone marrow, if these cells are expressing it and the cells are reproducing themselves, chronic inflammation of the bone marrow is well known to lead over a period of several months or even several years, maybe 10 years later, it will greatly increase the risk of leukemia and lymphoma. So the biology of it is very clearly known. The regulatory agencies had this information, lied about the meaning of what was getting into the general circulation. There have been many examples of people lying to cover up this information even after it came out. All of the fact-checkers, so-called, that I have looked at are deliberately falsifying the situation, covering it up, promoting the government line that the vaccine can't be harmful because the spike protein in the vaccine isn't the same as the spike protein demonstrated to be toxic and to cause potentially fatal blood clotting. For example, the Salk Institute demonstrated the clot-promoting effect of the spike protein, but they simply claimed that that evidence isn't relevant to the vaccine and they referred interested people to a blogger, an organic chemist employed by the pharmaceutical industry to give a textbook sounding explanation of why it can't be harmful, obviously totally ignorant, disregarding the evidence about its systemic circulation of the RNA particle. So you're saying that… There are all kinds of people that knew how dangerous these things are. And the evidence is there to prove that? Well, the information was available to them. And there are strong hints that they were aware of it. The way they… …cover up the information that they had access to. They wouldn't be so efficient at lying about the safety if they were actually ignorant of the information that was given to them. So we don't know for sure, but it would be everything from CDC to WHO to HHS, Fauci, to… who knows? I mean, who… Yeah, and there are some real oddities. The spike protein was being studied intensively several years ago. The Argonne National Laboratory has been working on designing and redesigning the spike protein itself, apart from any virus, for several years. And so, they had the information years before the Chinese supposedly discovered the virus and published the sequence, including the sequence for the spike protein. The reason they could come out with an RNA so-called vaccine so quickly was that they already knew the sequence they had been working on. So, this thing could all possibly be, who knows, just about injecting people with this stuff. It could all be about this, right? Wanting to… I don't know. Yeah, the medical head of Moderna, he recently resigned, but four or five years ago, he was talking about genetic engineering as… He was an oncologist promoting changing our genes as the future of medicine, and he went from genetic engineering of cancer treatments straight over to genetic engineering of vaccine against viral diseases, referring to it as changing our operating system, while talking about the RNA virus, which does have the potential to be copied into our DNA genome. But anyway, he was referring to changing our operating system by giving us the RNA vaccine. So, the mental framework demonstrably, at least some of the people involved, was intending to change our heredity, our nucleic acid operating system. And this DNA and the nucleic operating system, this… This is what determines our basic constitution and how we react to, in the environment, everything? Or can you help us explain how critical this is in this whole matter? I just got a message that my microphone had changed. Can you hear me? Yeah, we can hear you fine. Okay. Several years ago, Biden was in charge of what they called the cancer moonshot, talking about a genetic-based… individualized medication for cancer. Since that time, there has been a great medical or pharmaceutical industry push towards getting acceptance of the idea that for treating cancer, we have to engineer the genes that treat it individually. Potentially operating on a patient's genetic system to treat cancer. But cancer is not, it doesn't work like that. Cancer is there for a reason. The body is making cancer cells, right? It's not a genetic thing. It's the whole of the genetics. Dogma, going back a hundred years, has been running along a mechanistic ideology, which is the idea, first they were saying, we operate like a telephone switchboard, but as soon as they started operating on a computer ideology that information is what controls everything. The dogma of genetic, the DNA as a system of information, turned the organism into an information system, which it is not. That's an abstraction to justify mechanistic approaches to medicine. Yes, sir. So you can manipulate or stop or change the genes or whatever, right? Yeah, pretending that they have understanding of the organism if they have understanding of particular genetic codes, but the organism uses whatever genetic codes it has for its purposes. The organism is the system which controls the DNA. They are pretending the DNA is what controls the organism. Absolutely backwards. And we control the organism as spiritual beings, right? By what we believe and what we think. Yeah, our thought process is what... operates our genes, essentially. The so-called revolution in linguistics was financed by the Pentagon to treat language as something that can be totally defined by a computer. But at the very heart of it, it was obvious, right from 1960 at least, that the revolution in linguistics was based on phony claims, that a code generates language. But the code exists in the forms of rules, and to generate a sentence, you already have to know the sentence that you want to generate. The person can account for the language that they have produced by choosing the right rule at the right time to show that it can be described by rules. But that's totally interfering, ignoring the mechanism by which we created the sentence that is to be explained, and that whole backwards approach, saying that the code controls the organism rather than the organism bypassing the code entirely, and only theoretically making use of the code. For example, what I'm saying right now... I know what I'm going to say because on some level I know it, spiritually, right? As soul or... I don't know how you want to say it. It's not... You can't go backwards. You don't go back the other way. Right. Language is sort of secondary to our consciousness. To our consciousness, right. So somehow we know how to express... what we know to be true or what we believe. Yeah, Freud in the 1930s, I think it was just before he died, said that a person isn't conscious if they don't have the words for it. And very recently, Noam Chomsky in an interview said that you're only conscious through words and language. And he referred to his dogs, spelled out D-O-G, said that dogs aren't conscious because they don't have language. But in the presence of the dogs, he had to spell the word because he said that if they heard the word dog, they would get excited and think that they were going to get taken for a walk or something. But right in saying that dogs don't have... language, he made it obvious that if he said the word, the dogs would understand the situation by interpreting the word. Yeah, well, in my opinion, Dr. Petey's clueless, this fellow who said that. It's just not true. It's just not true. I had a... Three, five years ago, when I was sleeping, I heard my dog clearly, clearly, like a little Walt Disney voice, say, Patrick, my left teat is sore. Right? Clearly. I woke up, turned her over, and of course her left teat was just all swollen. Now, you know, how do you explain that? I've seen many, many examples of dogs both attempting to verbalize meaningfully and understanding ordinary English very clearly, and even with kittens. We discovered it accidentally. My girlfriend would never believe, even as she saw it. But I was sort of joking that if you speak very clearly, a six- or seven-week-old kitten would be able to understand you over and over. I showed that the kitten would understand what I was saying and do very, very unexpected things. You would be surprised if a two-year-old person did it, but animals even at a very young age are beginning to understand. the language of the people they live with. I think, in my opinion, cats are more evolved a bit than dogs, because cats know exactly what you're saying, but they don't care, right? But the kittens, for example, to demonstrate that the kitten understood, she was just sitting, grooming herself, and I said, Aphrodite, go look at yourself in the mirror. And she made an exaggerated pronunciation of mirror, and she looked at me, looked at the mirror, ran over to it, looked at herself. That's great. I used to play around with it when I had a cat where you could actually, she was across the room, and you could actually just have an image of your mind of the cat coming over and rubbing against your legs, you know, like they do? And you get pretty good at it, and before you know it, she's right over there doing it. And once to check, my girlfriend challenged me to tell her to do something that she wouldn't conceivably do. She had been batting around a piece of a fir tree twig. And I said, Aphrodite, pick up the twig in your mouth and go look at yourself in the mirror. She did exactly that. She did. Oh my goodness. Dr. Ray Peters with us. Patrick Timpone, Summer Solstice, June 21. So, having so much fun, but let's go back to the the crazy stuff going on with these injections. So, so my understanding that what you know... that these things could be very dangerous long term. Do we, do we really, is that conjecture, Dr. Pete, at this point, theory, or is it real science to show that these things could really be hurting people, possibly, long term? is that there was some sense of caution that they didn't assume that the body was as simple as a typewriter. And so they figured there might be unpleasant surprises, unless they did studies testing over a period of a few years. And the tendency has been to throw out caution entirely in favor of dogma. I see. But it doesn't even make medical sense to think that just because you put an injection in the muscle that it stays there, does it? I mean, it's not even logical. Not even logical. Absolute.<|transcribe|> is a crazy dogma. They define whatever they want to do as science, even if it's nonsensical, such as saying what you put in your arm and get to your brain. For decades it's been demonstrated, for example, if you put polio or influenza injection containing, for example, aluminum particles into your arm or your hip muscle that those particles travel over a period of just a day or two travel up the nerve axon, retrograde axonal transport it's called. That's been demonstrated over and over 20, 30, 40 years ago that these particles reach your brain. You can demonstrate. About two days after the injection, the particles are in your brain, affecting your brain behavior. So it's absolute fabricated, false science to claim that a vaccine isn't able to get into your bloodstream if it gets into your brain directly by the nerves. How much easier? It's going to be if you're getting into your lymphatic fluids, the lymphatic fluids end up into your bloodstream. There's no way to think clearly that would say that it doesn't travel systemically. And I believe my long-term study of ayurvedic medicine, I think they talk about bone marrow. Is it true that that's where the blood is formed, also out of the bone marrow? Not only blood cells, but white blood cells and replacement regeneration cells. For example, when they killed the oocytes in ovaries, it happens in any tissue that's injured. But they showed that... bone marrow cells very quickly began replacing even the oocytes in the ovaries after they'd been destroyed. Any tissue that's injured can send out SOS messages, at least partly in the form of particles in the ovaries. called exosomes, or extracellular vesicles, particles about the size of a virus that travel to the bone marrow, transmit the information of injury to a particular kind of tissue and organ, and the bone marrow manufactures replacement cells aimed at targeted targeted to the insert tissue for replacement and repair and regeneration. And isn't it fascinating how if you look at a picture of these exosomes in a microscope that they look exactly like this alleged COVID? Yeah, if you try to, 50 years ago I asked some biologists when I was a graduate student, No viruses could come into existence if they can't replicate themselves except in a higher animal that has the machinery for replication. No one would touch the question, but it's obvious. People in the 1950s were already providing evidence that... the external DNA of pollen, for example, or any nucleic acid that a higher organism sheds, can be taken up by all sorts of other organisms. You inhale pollen, you're inhaling DNA from plants. But the contact with other humans or animals......are exposed to their DNA, and some of it can be integrated into our systems as reserve, potentially, useful DNA. But the great likelihood, almost unavoidable, to recognize is that the... so-called viruses are actually exosomes excreted or somehow transmitted externally from higher organisms influencing other organisms. They aren't particles that evolve independently of... higher organisms. They have to come from somewhere. It's got to be us, right? Yeah. Right. So you think these exosomes could be, as some are arguing, that are actually helping us to evolve more in a healthful thing by passing on information to each other? Yeah, the great mass of our nuclear DNA. It's only something like 3% that we use to make the proteins that form our body. So more than half of our genetic information is something other than what we are right now using. For several decades now, it has been increasingly likely that organisms of all sorts are using shared DNA transmitted between individuals. It's very clear that bacteria do that if they are exposed. To a deadly situation, either starvation or toxins, the bacteria can create a DNA particle transmitting what they have achieved in resistance, a survival packet which they transmit directly through a little tube to other bacteria, not only of their own species, but even to different species of bacteria. They deliberately are transmitting useful DNA. If bacteria can do it, it seems very silly to assume that people and animals and plants can't do something similar, to share DNA for useful purposes, which, since most of our DNA is not used for making art. Our functional body proteins, it doesn't say that it doesn't have use. So it's possible that we're all the, so the bacteria then, they're learning something and they want to share the love, so to speak, with other parts of the body and other people? Yeah, and we, it's fairly new knowledge that humans are forming these particles to increase the survival potential of the whole organism by protecting and repairing other parts of the body. Yes, like I heard a little thing with Kaufman and they were talking about strep, right? Strep throat and the bacteria they're trying to get rid of the damaged tissue in the throat. That's what they're doing and that's what the pain is and if we take an antibiotic then we actually are stopping the healing process. There was one big study in cows in Canada with mastitis, and they were measuring the amount of bacteria in the infected udders that were inflamed. And when they cured the mastitis, they found that there were even more bacteria in the udder, but they were no longer harmful when the organism was healthy. So the bacteria, what were they trying to do on these udders? Clean it up? Yeah, they stimulated the oxidative metabolism. And the udder became unenflamed and healthy, but when they checked the bacteria, they hadn't killed the bacteria, they had actually increased the number. But they were now harmless because the oxidative metabolism was working properly. That has the clue for how to protect against cancer or COVID or whatever. If the organism is healthy, it gets along with the bacteria that are present. That doesn't have any harmful effects for them. So it's almost, in a sense, it could be a survival of the fittest kind of thing as well going on, in a way? Yeah, it's a matter of biological energy. If the organism is well energized, oxidizing properly, it would be, even the degenerative inflammatory autoimmune....conditions. All of those are relieved when you intensify mitochondrial oxidation. You reduce the random harmful toxic lipid for oxidation, which is......competing pathway, in effect, for the oxygen availability and diversity. When you lose the ability to oxidize intensively, you leave the oxygen available in a toxic form that gets consumed by causing lipid for oxidation. The more intense your own mitochondrial oxidation is, the less... susceptible you are to toxic lipid degenerative peroxidation. The HER gene is one of the things that is an excuse for doing the mastectomies. Things like aspirin and progesterone will control that enzyme. All they have to do is get on a protective......energy-promoting system that reduces inflammation. The mechanical thinking that the gene is simply going to be expressed is just wrong. All of the genes, even when they're mutant genes, they aren't. express in babies and teenagers, for example, it's a failure of energy that accounts for most of these so-called monogenic inherited problems. So these different gene snips that show up on these tests that get people kind of upset are... I don't know, over on... Yeah, it's a waste of money. It's a waste of time and money, really, isn't it? Because these things change all the time. Yeah, it's a propaganda. Procedure as well as an improper money-making business. It gives people very misleading ideas about their being and health. Yes. And then who knows what's going on when you do this 23andMe and these things, Dr. Pete, of who's ending up with your genetic, I don't know, who knows, you're probably selling it to somebody. Probably what? They're probably selling it to somebody. Yeah, I periodically get emails from people who have discovered supposedly that they are mutant. Right. Who has an unalterable condition, all most of them mean is that they might have slightly higher nutritional requirements, but for example, one of the things that slightly increases your need for folic acid is also statistically protective against cancer. So, it might be slightly harmful in one dimension while protective in another. So over the years when doctors go through this whole thing and ask you about family history of heart disease and all that stuff, it doesn't matter, does it? No, everyone should be doing the healthful things. There are commonalities just now being recognized in COVID, which for generations have been known to be involved in cancer and aging, mental problems, heart disease. The interaction of iron overload over concentration of polyunsaturated fats in the tissues, not enough oxidative metabolism, those interact in all of the infectious, hereditary. or degenerative conditions. And all of those can be affected by managing how you metabolize iron, how you choose your fats, how much calcium and vitamin G you get to reduce the excitation and fatigue of tissues. All of these promote... good oxidation and protect against the killing random lipid peroxidation, tissue calcification, and so on. And then all of these things you're talking about, dietarily and lifestyle, they'd all be determining on what's already in the body that's either expressed or not. Yeah, you can make choices that facilitate... survival, or that set you up for all of the inflammatory degenerative conditions. Mm-hmm. I wonder why... So many people have got this we don't even know what the number is because I'm sure they just make it up and say It's more than what it is, but Say it's a hundred million. I don't know I mean that are doing as well as they do even though there's lots of people that have been damaged and Maybe fifty thousand or so that have died if you look at the VAERS report and just extrapolate it out, right? that They're doing well so far within the next six months I don't want to wish anything on anybody, but is it possible that something could then Happen later to these folks who get injected that we don't know about Yeah, the fact that the particles concentrate in the ovaries and the bone marrow and the brain and the circulatory system. That means that you have to be watchful and careful over the next decade, at least, because if these particles are in you causing chronic increase in inflammation, it's as if you're, for example, inhaling polluted air containing particles of silicon and iron and so on. A constant, dragging, nuisance level of inflammation accelerates your susceptibility to all kinds of things. And so, to the extent that the particles accumulate in your tissues, it's a constant source of deteriorating inflammation. And that means that you have to be more careful than other people in avoiding things that stress you and exacerbate the inflammation. Yes, sir. So these unfortunate, uninformed souls who have taken this thing, they could experience all kinds of whatever stuff a year from now, two years from now, three years from now, that nobody's ever going to connect the dots to the spike broke, right? Yeah, already I've run into people who've had a heart attack or a stroke just a month after getting the second injection and had no suspicion at all that there might have been a connection. Or even after a month after the injection, they weren't connecting the dots to that. Yeah, the passage of time, they don't realize that this stuff has accumulated in their tissues and is slightly increasing the tendency to form blood clots, as long as there is any spike protein on the lining of your blood vessels, for example. Yeah, the spike protein. You're more susceptible to form blood clots when you're tired, for example, or having hypoglycemia. Hmm. Wow. Dr. Ray Pete, stay there, sir. We're going to take a little break, okay? We're going to take a break, Dr. Pete. Okay, fine. You stay right there. Stay right there. We're on Zoom, and Zoom Audio, our telephones have been out forever. Well, it's the 21st of June, and it is, um. The Summer Solstice, and once a year, Daniel Vitalis does a big sale, so if you like his products, if you've not tried it, it'd be a great time to try them. It's a 21% deal. 21%, June 21, and it's happening until midnight tonight. So if you've never tried the colostrum, or if you've never tried the pine pollen, or the elk velvet antler, or the shaga, the beechy. The vitamin D K2 product that's made from lanolin has CBD products, elk velvet antler. 21%. Use promo code INFINITE. Use promo code INFINITE. 21% until midnight tonight. Here's a little bit on the on the on the playing pile in case you'd like to try it. Gals do you get a little kick in your giddy up of testosterone with men? Many ladies do really well with it. You know they get in the 30, 40, 50, 60s and do the menopause thing. Check it out. Stephen Buehner, master herbalist, wrote an entire book on pine pollen. Previously we asked him what's the difference between gathering some pine pollen, eating that, and then maybe taking survival pine pollen and the grape alcohol, the tincture. What's the difference in the body? Okay the difference is pine pollen is probably one of the best nutrient food substances on on the earth and you see it's made to be up taken by all of the life around it. All of the other plants take it in and use it for growth. Many of the animals eat it and it's a very nutrient substance. If you eat it, what happens is it goes through your GI tract and then puts it into the bloodstream and there's a lot of great stuff in it. It's really high in amino acids and protein and vitamins, so it's a very magnificent substance. It's kind of a nutrient longevity tonic food, and it will over time raise levels, but if you really want to raise them fast, you don't want to let it go through your GI tract, hence the use of a tincture. And you can click and order this great product right on our website, any of these are Thrival links. Take you right to the Pine Bowen and order away, OneRadioNetwork.com. And just in case you thought it was safe to go in the water, we're... Our good friends at Shen Blossom, Brandon and Amilani, they got a little thing going on as well today for Father's Day or Solstice, whichever you choose to do, and there's a 15% deal on some selected items in Shen Blossom. And you don't need a promo code for this. The two of my faves in this one, they actually have Grotein, and I'm going to get some today on the 15% deal. I really like this product. The first ingredient is bamboo, and it really burns clean, supports the organs, protein metabolism, no flavors, additives, sweeteners, synthetic isolates, fractional, no PUFAs, none of this, a lot of different herbs, and boy, it's a nice, nice, nice thing for a smoothie that you can mix in with your colostrum and have some fun. They also have a prime, which is to get your digestive juices going, and that's in on Shen Blossom, and then a rise male potency tonic. So guys, if you want a little kick more on your giddy up with a rise, check out some of these ingredients. Whoa! Okay, check it out. Oh, Dr. Pete might like this one. They've got some little yammies there, I guess. That's progesterone, I guess. Maybe I should ask him. I'm going to ask Dr. Pete if that could be a kind of progesterone kind of a thing. I don't know. Isn't yammy progesterone? Anyway, I'll ask him. That's a rise on, uh... Shen Blossom. 15% off on this product, guys, and you'll like it. Uh, it's really, really, really nice things just for more strength, more energy, more voltage in your body, and more kick in your giddy-up, especially south of the border. Use your imagination. That's a rise, and, uh... that's going on sale through midnight tonight. So, both Shen Blossom and, uh, Survival sales on, um... on, um... Solstice Day. With Survival, with Survival, excuse me, you need a promo code INFINITE. Shen Blossom, no promo code needed. OneRadioNetwork.com We are listener supported. OneRadioNetwork. Dr. Ray Peters with his PhD. Doctor, is all kind of yammies? Is that mostly progesterone? Why that would be in a male kind of libido formula? Yamm? Progesterone is a protective substance. I don't even think of it as a hormone. It is so basic in the way it protects cells. And it's greatly increased during pregnancy because the developing fetus needs special protections. But the average person, male or female, has a very high concentration of progesterone in the brain because the brain needs special protection. And normally the brain contains about 10 times as much progesterone as in the blood serum. The brain produces progesterone. All of our tissues can produce some, but it's helpful if you have a placenta or ovary corpus luteum that is specialized in producing it. But if you're in good health, your brain is able to produce a lot of it. Your skin is a major contributor to your at your progesterone background. And when you're low in progesterone, the luteinizing hormone at the pituitary gonadotropin increases. And it happens that if the luteinizing hormone is too high, it in itself has toxic effects. And keeping the luteinizing hormone in a moderate low range is good for the health simply because the pituitary hormones themselves function as pro-inflammatory irritants. And so since progesterone along with testosterone tends to lower your luteinizing hormone, that's part of its benefit. When progesterone falls at menopause, the high luteinizing hormone attempting to make the ovaries produce more becomes toxic in itself and contributes to many of the symptoms of menopause. It's the same with a man. If your brain is deficient in cholesterol or a thyroid or vitamin A, all of which are needed to synthesize progesterone locally in the skin or in the brain, then you'll experience the effects not only of the progesterone deficiency destabilizing your nerve function, but also increased luteinizing hormone and its toxic effects. So that's why for a long time you've often recommended that all of us, boys, girls, regardless of age, could do, take a little dab of progesterone every day. Yeah, and if a person has any inflammatory symptoms, arthritis or serious degenerative conditions, blood vessel conditions, epilepsy, cancer and so on, then large doses are protective whether you're male or female. So, Beth is very concerned about this injection and the potential passing on to children. Did I hear Dr. Pete say that some of these problems could be intergenerational? Yeah, it's any stress to the father or mother, or even your grandparents, that's been known for a long time, that for as long as five generations after a major trauma, such as war or famine, the children will be showing the effects of their great grandparents' problems. And especially your parents, if they have something that decreases their progesterone, the offspring will be more susceptible to metabolic problems and inflammatory problems. Wow. Here's an email for Dr. Pete. We're going to get to as many emails as we can. We started late today because of technical stuff. Dr. Pete, what altitude is best to live in to get enough and more carbon dioxide? All the way up to 12,000, the problem with very high altitude is that it's cold all the time when you're much above 8,000 feet, but as far as the oxygen goes, the aging process of the skeleton, for example, people at 14,000 feet altitude chronically, have very sound teeth and bones because of the anti-stress, bone-protecting effect of carbon dioxide retention, and when you have more oxygen than you need, you're driving the level of carbon dioxide in your body down, and so you're losing the stabilizing effect. So coldness is probably the main reason for choosing an altitude under 12,000 feet, but 7,000 or 8,000 is extremely good altitude. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the insurance companies have recognized that the death rate from heart disease and cancer is much lower at high altitude populations. Oh, really? They figured it out, huh? Yeah, every thousand feet you go up in altitude, your risk of dying of heart disease and cancer is lower, and even dementia, the brain is protected by the carbon dioxide balance at higher altitudes. We could build the White House at 8,000 feet, and maybe Joe would get better. Yeah, so when we're higher up, then we have less oxygen, we retain more carbon dioxide, right? Yeah, if you have adapted, you shouldn't zoom, you shouldn't fly in the Mexico City, for example, from sea level, and expect to... In functioning right away, you should go up no more than about 500 feet per day to allow your body to adapt. And low-thyroid people are already, in effect, biochemically, they are hyperventilating, because they aren't producing enough carbon dioxide fast enough. So they have rapid breathing? Yeah, so the oxygen is lowering their CO2, and they compensate by increasing lactic acid production. So diabetics and hypothyroid people have a chronic lactate excess, and they have the most trouble adapting to high altitude. Because, in effect, they're... creating the oxygen excess by the fact that they aren't producing carbon dioxide fast enough. So, could that be the connection then between some low thyroid and maybe some heart unhappiness because of the lactic acid, and hence Cowan's work with the Strophanthinus or Wabanine? That lowers the lactic acid? Yeah, CO2 is our body's natural way to suppress. Lactic acid formation and progesterone and thyroid are ways to shift that balance, but many, many other things are very important. The flavonoids are coming to be recognized as protective against almost everything, anti-dementia, anti-cancer, anti-heart disease, because they promote natural mitochondrial respiration and production of carbon dioxide, and so they suppress inflammation and lactic acid production. Are you familiar with this idea of Buteyko breathing? Yeah, that's the... It retains carbon dioxide, right? But doesn't it retain carbon dioxide when we just... Yeah, holding your breath is therapeutic. Yeah, yeah. It's funny, you can really learn how to just not breathe as much. You know, you can really teach the body how to just... But then why, yeah, why I wonder though that all this idea, well, take a deep breath, people say, I mean, isn't that counter, could it be counterproductive depending on the situation? Exactly. Anxiety makes you over breathe. Yeah. And that produces lactic acid, which creates anxiety. And it's a vicious circle. An episode of something that makes you anxious will increase your lactic acid and tend to prolong the anxiety and over-breathing. And so breathing in a paper bag is the quick and easy way to do it. To retain more carbon dioxide. Re-breathe until it feels like you're suffocating and then breathe normally for a while and then repeat the bag breathing. It takes a minute or two of bag breathing to reach that state. But I've seen people just bag breathing three or four times a day lower their blood pressure by 10 or 20 points. Is that right? Really? Just by breathing into a paper bag until you feel like you just can't do it any longer and then you... Yeah, when it's very uncomfortable you stop and breathe fresh air. And it's carbon dioxide. Halt stain in the body. Yeah, and you can absorb carbon dioxide through the skin. So if you fill a tub or a big plastic bag with carbon dioxide and get into it, if you're measuring it with a closed bag, for example, the bag deflates after about half an hour, showing that you've absorbed lots and lots of CO2 through your skin. Oh, so you can actually, they have contraptions, you get a big plastic bag filled up with carbon dioxide and put yourself in it? Yeah, I've been doing that occasionally for years. Really? How do you get the carbon dioxide in there? Get a tank from a welding supply shop for 10 kilograms, I think costs about $20. Your tank costs $60 or $80, and you can fill a bag dozens of times with 10 kilograms. So you're actually getting in the bag and then they have a way, do you just, like around your neck or you put your whole head in there too? If you have a big enough bag, yeah. And then you squirt the carbon dioxide in there and just let it soak in you. Yeah, you empty the bag as completely as you can pressing the oxygen. out of it and then blow it up with your tank. And you can see the deflation gradually happening. Or if you're in a tub, carbon dioxide is heavier than air. So with a candle or a lighter, you can check the level. The candle goes out when it's at the level of carbon dioxide. And you can see the level constantly dropping over a period of 30 or 40 minutes. Isn't that interesting? So you could actually get a tank with carbon dioxide, fill up a tub, but you wouldn't see it, right? You don't see it? What was that? So you could get a tank, fill up your bathtub with carbon dioxide, but you wouldn't see it. Yeah, you have to seal the drains. You seal the drains, you wouldn't see it, but it gradually, it just stays in there because it's heavier than air. Yeah, you can check the level by a lighter or a candle. So you're in this bathtub, you don't see anything, but your body's absorbing the carbon dioxide. Yeah, you can see after. 15 or 20 minutes, usually your skin gets pinker when it gets saturated with CO2. That pinkness usually lasts for several hours after the episode. And all kinds of good things are going into your body when you're just retaining carbon dioxide without over-breathing, right? It relaxes everything. Once I was bringing a tank home and I tripped. And I knew if I broke the valve off the top it would turn it into a rocket so I clutched it to my body and fell on top of it and sort of squashed and scraped my wrist. I was falling on the concrete with a tank in my hand and immediately, like two or three minutes after it happened, I got a plastic bag, blew it up with CO2 and the purple semi-bloody spot where I'd squashed my wrist. After 15 minutes, the inflamed appearance disappeared, and all that left was a few bits of torn up skin, no bloody or purple sign of an injury left. Isn't that fun? But when you fill up your tub, how do you know when it's full? It takes just about 10 seconds of blowing at high speed, and then you can check. Clicking a lighter. I see, and see where it goes out. And so, if you don't get in there, it's just gonna, it'll dissipate anyway, right? If you fill up your tub. And if the room is breezy, yeah, it'll gradually blow it out of the tub. So you should have a quiet place with the window closed. And how big a tank you need to fill up a tub. Oh, it only takes, I think, three or four ounces to fill a tub, and then a tank full $20, 10 kilograms. That will fill many tubs. Oh, so you get one tank that's a 10 kilo tank, and you could fill up a bunch of tubs with that. Yeah, it would last me over a year for a tank. No kidding. And why do welding places have carbon dioxide? Welding shops are the most economical that I've found. The paint gun CO2 is very expensive. I'm sorry, the last part I didn't hear. What's expensive? What is expensive? Yeah, the welders use it. That's the cheapest place I've found to get it. I see. And you have to buy your tank somewhere else, right? And they'll fill it up for you. Yeah. And get a 10 kilo tank. Yeah, those are very heavy, but you can haul it around with a 20 kilo tank. You need an apparatus to wheel it around because it's so heavy. Well, I guess you get a smaller tank too, right? You probably get a 5 kilo somewhere? Oh, yeah. That's much more expensive if you buy it for making carbonated drinks, for example. That's very, very expensive. Yeah, very interesting. Fascinating. Mark is in New York, Dr. P.D. He wants to know if masa harina seems to be high in PUFAs and iron. Do you think the nixtamalization process takes care of this? It slightly reduces the PUFA content. And corn is pretty much like other grains as far as the minerals are concerned, but the process of soaking it in lime increases the calcium content to the extent that a kilogram of masa is almost the same as a liter of milk for the calcium effect. Is that right? And there is a place online, the name is not with me at the moment, that I purchased organic nixtamalized masa. You can get, I think I bought 5 or 10 pounds or something, still have a bunch downstairs. And we were talking about the toxic effect of iron on PUFA interacting. If you get a generous supply of calcium in your diet, that works with vitamin D to inhibit your parathyroid hormone. And that inhibiting your parathyroid hormone increases your cell metabolic oxygen consumption. And that protects you against iron and PUFA. So high calcium intake protects you against calcification of arteries, nerves. other tissues. The good stuff from food, right doc? The good stuff from like this nixtamalized masa or milk or greens. Yeah, those are low in other toxins. This is from Sophie. She's in Oregon or no Georgia rather. Dr. P, do you think chayote? Is okay to eat. Chayote. They're pleasant to eat. I think they're safe. Chayote. Hey, here's one from Gosia. That is a great name. I would love to ask Dr. Pete about low-intensity ultrasound. Taking that ultrasounds are not too great. Could low-intensity ultrasounds for repair torn ligaments be bad in the long run? My physical therapist suggested I do it once a week for two to three months for my wrist and thumb that I injured. Yeah, I knew someone who had extreme breast pain premenstrually, and she found that a quick application of ultrasound relieved it completely. And it's been known for quite a while that any injured tissue repairs itself faster under the influence of mild ultrasound. Bone injury heals faster, and I'm sure that would apply to tendon and ligament injury too. But you want to keep it away from your head. I don't think it's good to risk brain emulsification. by too much ultrasound. What about the babies, the moms that do the ultrasound to look at the babies, is that a good idea? No, it's been known that damages, genes, DNA, chromosomes can be shown to break under the influence of ultrasound. They don't tell you that part, do they, Dr. B? No. Cody is in Florida, she's wanting to know, trying to figure out what are the best foods, and she said, I've heard people say that you can test food by taking your temperature or your pulse before eating, and then again 30 minutes after, and if your temp is lower, it's caused a negative reaction. And Dr. Pete, comment on this method or your pulse as well. Yeah, it feels on. You're starting a level of thyroid and stress hormones. Getting your blood glucose up by eating some carbohydrate will activate your thyroid, increasing the conversion of thyroxine to the active T3. So that can increase your temperature and pulse rate if you're a slightly low thyroid. But the same thing, increasing your blood glucose, will lower the stress hormones. And if your stress hormones, adrenaline and cortisol, were responsible for keeping your temperature and pulse rate up, then the carbohydrate will lower your blood glucose. Lower your pulse rate and temperature, so you can get an impression of what was responsible for your balance before eating by the effect that the carbohydrate has. Dr. Pete, for me, sometimes if I do, I don't know, just for dinner, just do vegetables, right? A little olive oil, just vegetables, cook squash, I think I'm doing really good just doing that. When I do that most of the time, I really got to have some carb there. It's like, what's that about? I mean, is that just God's way of saying, Patrick, have a, I don't know, some pasta or rice or something? Carbohydrate, especially if it has some sugar in it, carbohydrate is the basis for good energy production rather than fat. All kinds of fat will have some metabolic problems where carbohydrate is the ideal energy substrate better than protein. Protein can be converted to energy, but the carbohydrate has the fewest drawbacks. And especially vegetables that are very tender when they're cooked, like summer squash, it's actually a fruit and low in the harmful fibers, carbohydrates. So that's why if I cook squash, which is what I usually have in the summer, summer squash, if I just eat that, my body needs more, what, sugar? More sugar? So it's craving some kind of carbs. Not necessarily. Those are very safe and beneficial. But if you want to have a therapeutic effect, increasing your metabolic rate are more effective than those good starches are the sugars. The starch will increase, sustain your metabolic rate pretty effectively, but you can give it an extra boost with a sugar such as orange juice. And potatoes would be a choice at night too, right? Yeah, and the protein value of potatoes is very significant. Yeah, so here's an email, so I'm not sure if he's right here, but he says, Dr. Pete, two questions, why doesn't Dr. Pete eat potatoes? Oh, I think I am slightly allergic to them. Oh, are you? Tomatoes, green peppers, eggplants, and potatoes. The nightshades. Yeah, about 40 years ago, I noticed that I tended to get a headache after eating too much of any of those. Interesting. Now when something like that's happening, have you figured out over the years, is that something that's going on in the gut or just, have you figured out why that is? Yeah, chronic tendency towards low thyroid increases the problems with the bacteria in the gut, makes the intestine more susceptible to inflammation and then that shifts the type of bacteria that are favored by the intestine. So it's a complex interactive cycle. The stress tends to create the conditions that create more stress. Yes, so that pesky thyroid again. So having a low thyroid actually messes with the little guys in the terrain that makes everything happy. Yeah, and that was one of the things that got me interested in high altitude because my allergies would tend to disappear when I was up around seven or eight thousand feet altitude for a few weeks. Yeah, interesting. Here's the second part of CC's question. Does Dr. P think it's safe to eat bacon, maybe fried in coconut oil, several times a week if the rest of the diet is good, avoiding PUFA's calcium-phosphate ratio good? So do you think bacon a few times a week is cool? Oh, I don't eat it that often, but well, once a week, lately I've been having it with liver. We happened to get some that the pigs had been raised on a Pufa-free diet. And so the bacon fat was very similar to butter in Pufa content. Yeah, you mentioned that before that if you get bacon from just an old bacon, they could be giving these piggies GMO corn and who knows what, right? And that's a whole other thing. We have access to a great pig farmer here in Dripping Springs and they do just a vegetarian diet for the pigs. And you were saying that the whole fat is a different, what did you say? Pufa content, they had it analyzed. They got some bacon from the store. It happened to be lower than the Department of Agriculture recognized pork fat as having more than 30 percent Pufa. Their sample happened to be something like 25 percent. But their own vegetarian pork had 4 percent Pufa, where butter has about 3 percent Pufa. Wow. And that comes from the corn, probably? Well, it was a variety of starches. and sugars, a mixed diet, simply excluding soybeans and whole grains, which contain too much Pufa. So Dr. Preet, even if it's an organic bacon, which you can get, we still don't know the Pufa stuff, right? I think the important thing is the Pufa content. The Pufa. Yeah, they can be organic. Soybeans, for example. That's right. You get all kinds of Pufa. So you just gotta...man. So we just gotta find more people like my pig guy where he does a vegetarian diet, right? Right. There you go. Poor people in Mexico often feed their pigs. Squash and whatever fruit they have in excess of. It's the same with eggs. If you feed your chickens table scraps, lots of vegetables and tortillas and everything except the grains, you'll get saturated eggs which taste better. Yeah, if you can find a place that quick freezes it, you don't want it to sit around in the store for three or four days or a week or two. That's what makes it taste disgusting. Yeah. Yeah. Do you think it's important or meaningful at all to fry it with onions? Onions are the next best. Food for nutrient intensity, but therapeutically, liver, once a week, can be very important. And the onions, is that just for taste or add anything to it, nutritionally, liver and onions? Oh, that's mostly for taste, I think. Is it? That's why my mom used to do it. Yeah, if the liver isn't entirely fresh, then onions and bacon are more important for... covering up the flavor. That's right. Here's one for you. Appreciate you having Dr. Pete on every month. Thank you. Please ask Dr. Pete how to use orange juice or even Mexican Coke in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Wouldn't that raise blood sugar way too high? How could that possibly work? It's too close. It happens to increase the metabolic rate, the oxidative metabolism, and so if you introduce it gradually, orange juice in particular has the anti-inflammatory flavonoids which stimulate oxidative metabolism. So the combination of flavonoids and sucrose have an effect that opposes the problem in diabetes. You can create... the diabetes metabolism immediately by feeding a lot of PUFA. When your blood is loaded with fatty acids, that suppresses the ability to oxidize glucose. So, momentarily, a load of fat creates......temporary diabetes. And chronically, especially when it's polyunsaturated to a high degree, a fat diet is the basic cause of diabetes, not a sugar-rich diet. And in the late 19th century, two doctors demonstrated that......approaching a pound of sugar a day, just plain refined white sugar, added to a regular diet. There are terminal diabetes patients recovered in just a matter of two or three weeks. Whoa. That's crazy. A pound of sugar? No, just plain sucrose. How did... Getting good nutrition otherwise, what it's doing is displacing or suppressing the free fatty acids released under stress in your body. Once your body loads up to a certain extent with PUFA, that creates a block to sugar metabolism. And when your sugar metabolism... is blocked, you switch from carbon dioxide production to lactic acid production, which increases the amount of free fatty acids in your blood in a vicious circle. And what these doctors were doing was giving so much sugar added to a regular diet that they were suppressing the release of fatty acids from storage. Breaking the stress cycle. Interesting. Here's one from Lynn. I have a question about applying the Progest-E natural progesterone oil that you developed to the lob... is it labia? Is that how you say it? The LABIA around the vaginal opening or even to the inside of the vagina. How much would absorption compare... to applying it to the gums? Would the benefit be comparable? Is there any reason not to apply it in the genital area? No, in women that's a common way of using it. For a long time doctors have prescribed tablets or suppositories containing powdered progesterone. The powder isn't very effectively absorbed, but when it's dissolved in vitamin E, a thin application of it to any mucous membrane is very well absorbed, whether it's in the vagina membrane or the gums, it goes right in through the thin tissue into the bloodstream. So it works no matter where you put it. Yeah, but only what's in contact with the membrane is active. If you put in too much, it just falls out. For guys, would there be any benefit to applying a right to the testicles? I wouldn't do that because the the channel membranes are get it into the general circulation, but applying it very close to the testicle would very likely interfere with the metabolism, suppressing the metabolism, probably very powerfully lowering your testosterone. You don't want to do that. So if you take it, put it on the other skin. It lowers your stress reaction first and can actually increase your testosterone production by lowering the stress. Got you. So just in general, when we chill guys and we just chill out and don't over breathe and don't over exercise, it raises testosterone level kind of naturally? Just by relaxing? Yeah, that has been tested. When you're very relaxed, the progesterone level goes up, also the testosterone. And when you exercise stressfully, your testosterone goes down. Athletes have known that for 50 or 60 years by under training, supposedly, they were getting abrir. That's why, maybe, the progesterone level went down. much better results at olympic contests rather than overtraining so that's why the burst exercise of maybe 30 seconds or even a minute full on could be beneficial so you don't spend 15 minutes breathing hard or something yeah and that's one of the effects of carbon dioxide athletes uh increase their endurance and adaptation to altitude and stress by taking a baking soda in the water the carbon dioxide is retained by the cells and you excrete the sodium so it's a way of decreasing inflammation and increasing oxidative metabolism. A little baking soda, you mean before exercise or just a couple during the day? Before exercise. And that helps you to not breathe as uh breathe as heavy and lose carbon dioxide. Yeah I heard that before the 1968 Olympics in Mexico the German team was taking I think they said two tablespoons a day of baking soda in water. Is that right? Wow. Doesn't that that won't mess up your your gut? Doesn't that alkalize the stomach? That's okay? It's very quickly absorbed and adjusted your stomach compensates and doesn't stay alkaline. Very long huh? Yeah and once it gets absorbed your kidneys get rid of the excess. Sodium very quickly but instead of. Leaving the Alkaline bicarbonate that the bicarbonate is turned into gaseous Co2 Which then is? dissolved into the Cells keeping them in a stable oxidizing condition Here's an email from Australia way down under Sarah Thank you so much for having them on the show I'm a female, and I'm wondering under what circumstances is Pregnenolone helpful and under what circumstances is Progesterone helpful. I'm confused as to the reason why I would choose one over the other Currently, a problem is that there are dozens of little startup companies producing a pregnenolone and the slightest miscalculation or inefficiency in their chemistry can leave irritating or toxic toxic contaminants in it. So you have to test any particular brand of pregnenolone that you get. Watch out for any hormonal symptom at all. It shouldn't be associated with pregnenolone. Nothing but an anti-stress effect should result from pregnenolone. No uterine or breasts. Sensations. No changes of whisker growth or such. Progesterone is mainly produced by the biggest, oldest chemical companies, and so if you get a good brand of it, you know that it is unlikely to be contaminated. Just be careful with what you're using here. Otherwise, the effect of progesterone is immediate as a quieting anti-stress effect. The anti-stress effect of pregnenolone is not only. Quick, but it's limited. And for example, with any reasonable amount of pregnenolone, less than half a cup at a time, even a thousand milligrams isn't going to have any sedative effect or an overdose of progesterone. It will put you to sleep if you take too much. This is interesting. From George, why wouldn't the body detoxify all of the bad things from this injection you and Dr. Pete have been talking about? The body generally detoxes every poison that goes in. Only if your liver is in very good condition. Low thyroid people, one of the big problems is that the liver slows down. And even estrogen and cortisol, which are normally excreted on the first passage through the liver, 100% of the estrogen should be excreted. But if you're deficient in nutrients or thyroid, the liver passes the toxins repeatedly, letting you accumulate the toxins and estrogen and cortisol, so that you lose the regulatory function of the liver. And what are some of the best things we can do for the liver? A good, adequate protein, B vitamins, and thyroid. Keep your thyroid happy. Yeah. And carbohydrate is essential for the thyroid to work. The thyroid, the active T3 thyroid, at least two-thirds of it derives from the liver, and the liver only converts it when it has enough sugar. Here's an email, and let's see if I understand this correctly, from Ray. Oh, Ray emailed earlier from another show and he's having trouble with sexual activity. And he said, what could be keeping my cholesterol so low some years ago? A nurse told me my cholesterol was below 100. Wow. If it's anything like my metabolism back then, oh, this is a while, I'm burning cholesterol as fast as I make it. What could be going on? Inflammation of the bowel, sending signals to both the intestine and the liver to interfere with cholesterol synthesis. And so clearing up any bowel inflammation is the first thing. And then have adequate carbohydrates in your diet as essential so that the thyroid provides the energy needed to make the cholesterol. In a previous interview, Jan writes, she's in London, England. If someone needed to lose 50 pounds. Dr. Peters, I believe, said he wouldn't eat anything for a while. Can you ask him to expand on that? Would he do an extended fast or would he just use a low-calorie approach or something else? A fast destroys... protein tissues very quickly, turning them into the required amount of glucose to keep your brain and immune system functioning. So, fast is very destructive to the muscles. Atrophy, for example, you lose mostly muscle tissue and thymus and immune tissue on a fast. Or on a low-calorie diet, where you're getting the carbohydrate that your brain and immune system need, you lose mostly fat. So, I think the closer you are......to a balance of calorie need, but you can increase your calorie burning by getting sugar rather than starch and supporting your thyroid function. The starch isn't quite as stimulating to the metabolic rate as sugar. So, the things that I chronically... mention in connection with the therapeutic diet happen to be ideal for a weight loss diet. Low fat milk and orange juice. Orange juice and low fat milk. Yeah. That'll get you there. Does Dr. Pete think consuming a couple of cups of green tea like Sencha or Matcha is......beneficial or okay. Yeah, yeah, very good. I believe I heard you say, Dr. Pete, that if your thyroid is not working, you will...if your thyroid is working, you would not have an overabundance of parasites. Is that true? Yeah, your peristalsis should be fast. Digestive juices should contribute to general sterility of your small intestine. And that's just not a happy environment for parasites. If you have sluggish digestion, there will be undigested food far up in your small intestine. That will give parasites a chance to get started. Okay, here's one for last for you, then we'll let you go. Okay, I've got two more. First one, please ask doctor how to balance estrogen and progesterone. I was diagnosed with low estrogen, prolapsed uterine and vaginal dryness. I'm 56, post-menopausal. My doctor put me on an estradiol cream. I only did it for two weeks. It made my breasts hurt. What can I take to help me? The vaginal dryness is often from other than an estrogen deficiency. Vitamin A to help you make cholesterol and progesterone along with thyroid is important for vaginal lubrication. And when you're deficient in progesterone... the... all of the enzymes, all of your tissues, fat tissues, skin, brain, liver, bones, everything, shifts over to making local estrogen. So, the absence of estrogen normal levels in the blood. Have nothing to do with the actual estrogen effect inside tissues. When your progesterone is adequate, you are inactivating the intracellular estrogen releasing it into the bloodstream. So, supplementing progesterone will seem to normalize your blood level. But it will actually be lowering the physiological effect of estrogen. So, I doubt that it's possible to have such a thing as an estrogen deficiency. Because the more stress there is, the more tissues take over producing progesterone. Even in a healthy individual, even a steady... To measure the amount of estrogen being created by the ovaries, they compared it to the amount of estrogen in the veins draining the arm of the monkey they were experimenting on. And the arm was producing as much estrogen as the ovary. So ovarian failure tends to, if anything... increase the amount of estrogen manufactured in your muscles and bones and fat and breast tissue and so on. Interesting. So here's a final one. This is a kind of fun one. I saved this for last. Dr. Ray Peat, if I gave you $100,000 today, could you show me 50 studies or 100 studies or 1,000 studies? That prove the virus germ theory to be not a theory but true and isolate a virus whether it be AIDS or Corona or any other virus. To prove what to be true? The germ theory. I didn't get that word. The germ theory that was put out by Pasteur and the Ender's paper and that's used for the germ theory. So could you show them that the germ theory for $100,000 could you show them that the germ theory is true? It depends on who is being convinced. If you take a huge portion of cholera bacteria, for example, it's almost always going to make a person very, very sick. But that's if you put it in your body, right? You'd have to scratch him or inject it, touch it? Or drink it. Or drink it. Right. Yeah. Right. But how about the virus kind of AIDS thing? You know, AIDS virus and coronavirus. Could you prove that exists for a hundred grand? People have proven it many times by taking a concentrate from a petri dish where it has been grown and inoculating it carefully. They can get essentially a hundred percent transfer. But as you know, Lenka, Cowan, Kaufman and all that say that that's not, you're not playing fair because you, they're doing monkey kidneys and antibiotics and they're starving it in a petri dish, but they can't isolate it if you just really isolate it using the term isolation as in Webster's dictionary. But you can demonstrate that the symptoms correspond to the organism. Different organisms produce very different symptoms. I kind of lost you there. But what about, if you, so what do you say to them, these people that say if you don't isolate it, you don't have it? That doesn't apply anywhere in science, really. When you identify a chemical, using a chemical test, you can do that on trace amounts of atoms and molecules. Just a few molecules can be identified, but obviously you can't isolate those, but you can do very sensitive tests to demonstrate their presence. That's all you're doing. But how do you, if you haven't divided it from the monkey kidneys and all the stuff and the antibiotics, how do you know what could possibly be hurting people? How do you know? It's the same as... analyzing traces of chemicals by the effect. But if you have a lot of chemicals in what you're doing, how would you know it's this or that? By the different effect. The same way you can distinguish iron from copper in trace amounts. They have different effects and so if you compare cholera to measles, the effect you get is specific to the substance. You don't have to demonstrate that you have a cholera bacterium to show that it has a specific cholera-like effect. And you say effect by when you put it in the person? You put it in your digestive system and you get cholera symptoms. Right. But that's a bacterial thing, right? Not a viral. Yeah, but it's the same with different viruses. You get different effects, although usually there is confusion. Many viruses called respiratory viruses are actually intestinal viruses. They attack the intestine first and the inflammation producing the intestine brings on respiratory symptoms. And where do these intestinal viruses come from? You can grow them in a culture medium or you can take them from a sick organism. But not through the air, you'd have to inject it. Usually, yes. The demonstration of aerial transmission is a very special and questionable route. That's what they're claiming. The people that are questioning this whole China virus idea, Lanka and those claim that you do a protein like that, a poison, and throw it out there, and it's dead on arrival before it even gets there. In other words, in other words, if you did something in a lab and try to release it in the air or whatever, their conjecture is that it just doesn't work like that. We just don't spread things back and forth from each other, and it's very unlikely we would even breathe it in and get sick, because it would be dead by the time it gets there. Yeah, the best demonstration of possible aerial transmission is if you put a cold object under your nose and breathe on it until you have obvious condensation. Then you can do a polymerase test to demonstrate what is in that condensate, and so you can demonstrate that we are breathing out nucleic acids, exosomes and so on. Exosomes, yeah. Well there's several people out there that are actually offering big money if you could actually prove that there's some virus-isolated corona that's making people sick. Do you know, I don't think there's ever been a Koch's postulates or an autopsy done to prove that, oh, there's that virus, has there? The probability that there is no such thing as a simple certainty in science is always a matter of probability. And if you can create the symptoms of a disease by taking a sample from a person with that disease and create similar symptoms, the fact that the symptoms are the same, the probability is you're transmitting an agent specific for those symptoms. And it's the same as chemical analysis. There's no question of having to isolate anything. It's a matter of probable, most likely explanation for why you get particular symptoms. There's no way to know that people who had symptoms theoretically from this corona, why they're having symptoms. They could be detoxing like we do with a flu, right, or a cold. They could be EMFs. They could be bad diet. They could be, they're in fear. I mean, if you're afraid of a virus, you could create anything, right? Yeah, I'm extremely skeptical about all of the claims of the COVID virus because they are essentially identical to traditional influenza and, in fact, traditional influenza disappeared the very week that the coronavirus took over the epidemic. So you're skeptical of the corona... It's probably just a change of names. Yeah. But so in the traditional cold and flu paradigm... You know, many people are arguing, you know, that we're just detoxing when this happens, that we don't really catch some kind of virus in the air. Do you think that's possible? When I frequently associated with school teachers, when their students were having an epidemic of cold, cold and flu, even chicken pox. I would tend to get cold symptoms or even chicken pox symptoms. Just talking to them? No, just being, sharing a house with a school teacher, for example. Oh, I see what you're saying. Yeah. I mean, there's an argument that, what if... What if you just needed to detox and they're just helping you to detox, they're not really giving you something that's bad. That's possible. Well, I think the whole idea of detoxing is part of the problem. You should detox without any symptoms at all when your liver is working. And your other protective organs are working, including your thymus and your nervous system. Detoxification should go on faster the more symptom-free you are. When you become symptomatic, your energy system decreases and you are failing to detox to the extent that you're having symptoms. Yes, sir. Yeah. So that would be a great argument for most Americans on a standard American diet. It's stress or whatever, smoking alcohol, EMFs, you name it. Bad water. That a couple times a year they get the flu because they build it up, right? I mean, that's the perfect argument for that, isn't it? That the body's trying to get rid of stuff, that they didn't catch anything. Well, when it is getting rid of things, successfully, you're not experiencing symptoms. Right. No, I understand what you're saying. You and I, if we don't have flu symptoms, we're just detoxing all the time. Yeah. And when a person fasts, for example, and gets symptoms, they call that detoxing, but it's really re-toxing. The fasting knocks out your detoxifying enzymes and makes you suddenly susceptible to the poisons that are stored in your tissues. Right. So there's two ways to look at it. You can say, well, if I don't ever experience flu or cold or flu, I'm detoxing ongoing, I'm doing great. Or you could say, I have a great immune system, which I don't even know if that flies anymore. And this little virus that goes around allegedly, I just don't get because I'm strong. Two ways to look at it, isn't there? Yeah, you can demonstrate the presence, supposedly, of the viral antigens in a very high proportion. Very healthy people. The virus can be present. They have no symptoms at all. They're perfectly healthy. Showing that it's the body weakness which allows the presence of the virus to increase their symptoms. So if you're diabetic, have autoimmune diseases, the small exposure... to either the virus or the vaccine can exacerbate your existing problems. And could that virus that it's expressing already be there? Yeah, yeah. It could. It could be in the body. Yeah, and just hasn't been noticed. And so even in a person who is dying in the presence of the positive... PCR test, that has nothing to do with saying that the COVID virus is killing them. Right. It is simply present when the person is sick. Yeah, it's simply there, right? Yeah. Again, if you did Cox's Postulate, it's my understanding, Dr. Pete, that you got to go through some pretty rigorous thing to prove, right, in Cox's Postulate, that it is what it is. And in healthy people, it does not cause... sickness. Well, it's a curious thing, these bodies. Have 50% of the world, no, I won't even go to the right. Oh, now they're running the story that 50% of the world's domestic pigs died from the SARS virus years ago. Or is that fake news? I think a panic caused them to kill the pigs. Yeah, I think so too. Well, Dr. Pete, we've overstayed our welcome with you. You know, this Zoom thing worked pretty well. It's easier for you to write you have a headset rather than a phone. The sound for me isn't as good as the phone, but it does work. Oh, I'll listen to the video later. I think it's pretty good. Maybe we'll just go with this. If you can hear me, okay, right? And it's more comfortable for you to wear a headset rather than hold the phone for a couple of hours. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, that's true. Well, you've got me. I'm an orange juice junkie now, thanks to you. I appreciate it. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. It's an honor. Oh, I want to just give you a little plug. Ray Pete's newsletter at gmail.com. Ray Pete's newsletter at gmail.com. You can go there and write to him and then get yourself a newsletter and it comes out, what, five, six times a year? Six times a year. Six times a year, right. And support him because he has to buy orange juice like everybody else, right, and carbon dioxide. Dr. P, thank you for being here. We love you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your ongoing ability to and willingness to come on our show. It means a lot to us. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. Bye-bye. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com, with Dr. Ray Peet. Yeah. Well. There we are. Let's see if I can close this thing. Leave the meeting. Yeah, I'll leave the meeting. I don't know that Zoom thing well. Well, that was a trip of great fun. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. I'm going to have a little food here, and... We will see you tomorrow. Susan Bradford. We're going to get into geopolitics in China and the Vatican, and goodness knows who else. Jet Blake is going to be here on Wednesday. He's a real trip. He's great. Great stuff. Great stuff. A philosopher, a scientist, talk about all kinds of things. Cryptos to AI to spiritual stuff. We had him on a couple weeks ago and people really liked him. So we invited him back. And then also Jeffrey Smith. You know Jeffrey, he was on this GMO stuff before it was cool. A billion years ago, he wrote the book Seeds of Destruction. And he's going to be here on... Wednesday. A quick little plug here for Survival since it is the last show of the day and it is... Could it be my last time to talk to you, if you would like to get involved in the 21% deal for June 21, any Survival link, colostrum, shaga, reishi, vitamin D, K2 thing, colostrum, I said that one. Digestive bitters, pine pollen, elk velvet antler, CBD oil, 21% use promo code, promo code INFINITE, INFINITE, INFINITE, INFINITE, INFINITE, and it's going on until tonight, Monday night, June 21st, midnight, midnight. And then it's gone. Biggest sale of the year. So if you've been hearing me talk about colostrum and pine pollen and stuff like that, say, man, I think I need to try some of that stuff. So I need to try some of that. Why not go there and try it tonight? Get yourself 21 percent. OK, kids, I love you all very much. Thank you. I will see you tomorrow. And we'll talk a little geopolitics and see what kind of trouble we can get into. Remember, I'm here for you. Anything that I can do. I am happy to help you in any way that I can. As crazy as I am, sometimes I actually know what I'm talking about. Sometimes. Just email me, Patrick, Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Thank you. I love you. May the blessings be. Take care. We are listener-supported, one radio network. You You