 Pushin' this button? Broadcasting from the beautiful Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, well, very pleasant good morning to you. Welcome to part two of our little show today on the third Monday of the month. We have the pleasure of following Dr. Massey, is having Dr. Ray Pied on. He's a kind of a legend in nutrition, PhD, biology, University of Oregon, specializing in physiology. He taught schools all around. He was in Mexico for a long time. He started his work with progesterone and related hormones in 1968. Wow, that's the year I started radio, 1968. Dr. Ray Pied was doing hormones and I was playing Frank Sinatra records. 1978, Dr. Pied, you and I have been around a little bit. Good morning. Yeah. Nice to have you here. How are you? Just about the time I finished my dissertation related to estrogen metabolism, the news was that there was a tremendous pituitary tumor after the development of tumors with excess production of prolactin. Yeah. You heard us talking about prolactin. Yeah. And for several years, surgery was the only thing. I think it was a 300-fold increase in prolactin surgeries in just a few years. And it turned out to be the onset of the birth control pill was causing this terrible epidemic of surgeries for the pituitary. And after several years, probably a little over 10 years before, doctors really would consider using a drug such as bromocriptine to change the hormones away from the estrogen prolactin effect. And so it became a more manageable problem when they realized a fairly safe drug could do it. But that was sort of all there was to it. It was swept under the rug that had been a purely iatrogenic problem because of the massive use of esters and treatments for menopause and birth control. But then, yeah. The background of the problem started being discussed. People working in the salmon industry realized that the natural physiology of salmon and other migrating fish involved some radical changes from prolactin and the shifts from high salt intake in the ocean to a very low salt intake, high water intake, turned on the prolactin, which is a water regulator. Yet helping to get rid of excess water, and that's the essence of estrogen poisoning. It causes excess retention and poisoning by water. And so the Simon effect on prolactin is also the estrogen effect. The fish coming in from the ocean aren't really edible for good tasting, safe fish. They're very deteriorated. The flesh becomes mushy and unpleasant. And the bears can thrive on them and so on. But what is happening is if you look at the progress of the salmon going up the river as the meat deteriorates, the salmon is preparing to ovulate and die. And the process of ovulating is part of the process of keeping adapted to this excess of bone water. And the process that keeps the fish from dying from water shock, the progesterone, the prolactin is fighting off the high water pressure, but at the extent of destroying the bones. And this involves the parathyrodormons, as well as the whole estrogen reproductive system. And the... That is to cause kyphosis, which is the bending of the spine. The salmon doesn't have to hold itself in an erect posture the way old people do. But they call it kyphosis, whether it's either in salmon or in old women. The upper part of the spine turns sharply forward. In the case of women, they talk about it as if it's gravity pulling you forward, causing your spine to bend into a hook shape as you form osteoporosis. But in salmon, the salmon floats at both ends, and so there's nothing causing gravity. In fact, it's nothing but the destruction of the skeleton, the parathyroid hormone, loss of calcium, and force of the water regality minerals. So the sudden onset of death and prolactinoma and the whole aging syndrome in salmon exactly corresponds to the aging effect associated with estrogen and osteoporosis. Wow. Fascinating how it's all connected like that. So the high omega-3s in salmon, does that tie in with the early aging process or fatty liver and stuff with humans? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Which is why you don't want to eat salmon every day or anything. You don't want to eat salmon every day then. Oh no, I stopped eating it all together when I learned about the high PUFA content and the association with high estrogen prolactin. Dr. Ray Peet is with us, and if you'd like to join the show, he's on the line we take in, so no telephone, but email Patrick at oneradionetwork.com. I've been reading, coming across this fellow Ancel Keys from time to time the last month, I don't know why, it's been kind of one of those things. Who was this guy and did he put out a lot of misinformation? Ancel Keys, do you know of him? What was his story? He seemed to be an honest but misinformed biologist. So he was honest, you think, but misinformed biologist. Yeah, he was just inclined in the wrong direction by propaganda, which practically everyone is in biology. A project of mine for the last few weeks has been to, in doing my searches, in effect ask people alternate forms of the different question. But the seemingly innocent intent of finding out what people believe is the cause of aging and which things cause better oxidation and which things cause worse oxidation. And I found that if the PubMed was an individual, but I've also done it with individuals, to in effect lead the PubMed or the person to lead them to say something. That seems obvious and intuitive to them, but if I innocently seem to change the way I ask a question, what is the factor that causes the aging, you can lead people very easily, even close. That seems to be the objective database. You can lead PubMed responses to be predominantly incriminating fat in aging or predominantly incriminating sugars and carbohydrates in aging. It just depends where the motives or the preconceived notion of the person doing this. Yeah, I did the same thing for the oxidation in general as well as for aging. And you can lead what seems to be the objective result of looking at hundreds and hundreds of responses when you get a very high proportion shifting your responses. What is the cause of age-oxidated deterioration? You can say it's caused by fat or by carbohydrates, and it all comes right out of the same database. So if you look at it without suspicion, just because you innocently were focused for some reason on fat-eating or sugary, it can lead you innocently to 180 degrees. Interesting. So it's talked about that he was actually working for some sugar companies at one point and was trying to make the case that sugar was okay? Mm-hmm. And when was he? Back in the 70s and 80s? There has been a change in the time drift of answers, so when you see the change over time, it's gotten more from blaming things on sugars to more blaming them on oxygen. That can give you the opinion that it's objective and historical. But when I looked at just the issue of immunity. What are the things that cause immune system failure or activation? The same thing happened. In the 1990s, with a series of absolute-looking articles, and especially Science Magazine, the very top-prestige magazines were blaming the immunological changes in insulin. And roundworms had been identified as causing aging by mutating their quality of their diabetes molecules. They were producing too much, too active insulin. And so insulin, back in 1998 to 2000, the great stress was suddenly discovering that high insulin or high glucose would cause rapid aging, premature death. But then, just in 20 years, the different way of asking questions, is diabetes the cause or is it preventive? And it turns out that now the failure of good glucose function, good insulin response, is the essential, not the objective, but the preferred apparently objective answer. I understand. So, most of these different studies... If you talk about Carves and fat or meat or whatever most of them are all I don't know what the term is dr Pete they're just asking questions of people and they fill out forms mostly and They can be other than totally accurate, correct? They're just asking questions. Yeah. Yeah, and the culture, the simple advertising, publications in medical journal, on television, huge influence of television on what to expect from the pituitary tumors or carbohydrate. Yeah. Or not enough insulin or too much insulin. Right, right, yeah. We were talking about it earlier because I've been playing around with my diet. In general, is it overall better, medium, or does it matter of your fasting blood sugar being lower? Is that preferable to be 60 rather than 90? Oh, yeah, it means your insulin is working and providing ATP for your cells. The drift of thinking now is very well objectively supported to show that it's the ATP provided to the tissues that prevents aging. ATP to the tissues. And what provides ATP more directly to the tissues than glucose? And so, glucose, ATP, anti-aging......is now very clearly a matter of simple availability of energy. Energy has always been the life factor. And that has slipped by people. And how does that relate to insulin and blood sugar levels? Well, when you're failing to make good insulin, or you're producing or eating too much fat, the fat is blocking your insulin. Then you have accelerated aging, so it can be genetic distortion of the insulin, or it can be just too much fat in the diet. Too much fat. Causing insulin resistance. And I was... The insulin is resisting because? Your insulin is resisting getting into the cells? Yeah, they each are blocking the ability of the cell to oxidize glucose directly to get at the ATP. Oh. Got it. Here's an email for you. Does PUFA inhibit thyroid hormone because the body actually wants to lower the body temperature to help prevent the PUFA from becoming oxidized or rancid, or is it more directly inhibiting thyroid hormone? Mm-hmm. Just layers and layers of that kind of effect. Layers and layers. So, what's Prufu doing? Well, it's activating estrogen effects, serotonin effects, lowering body temperature, interfering with thyroid function. All of the above. Mm-hmm. And more. All the different enzymes that you could involve. Mm-hmm. So that's just many reasons why they're just not good for us, right? Many reasons. Yeah. Can Dr. Pete explain what natural remedies can dissolve, excuse me, or remove? I'll spell this for you, Doc. A-R-C-U-S-C-E-N-I-L-I-S, which is a thick bluish white ring that can develop around the iris that are often called cholesterol rings or calcium rings. In iridology, why would these rings develop in the eyes of people who are in their 20s? Cholesterol rings, do you know from those? Who was saying that? This person evidently has these rings, the Arcus Sinilis, and they're bluish-white rings that developed around the iris. Are you familiar with those? That involves calcification, as well as fats, not just pure cholesterol. In tissues like that, the cholesterol is partly a protective attempt to defend the system. It's very clear that the first reactions of cholesterol are to combine with the toxic effect of the PUFA that's already taking effect. When it fails to be sufficiently anti-toxic, then it gets the blame. The age-pigment development of the lipophagous accumulated PUFA causes a problem. The senile brain has much more total cholesterol. than the healthy young brain. A situation very close to the senile artery, the detoxifying effect of the binding of cholesterol to the ape's pigment. As that fails, you get more cholesterol in your blood vessels. As it fails to protect your brain, your brain gets close to twice as much accumulated total......progesterone at the non-senile young brain. But the amount of free, protective, interactive insulin, which is in the process of removing the toxic pigment as the senile brain loads up on more total cholesterol, the amount of functional free cholesterol decreases radically. So a sentinel brain full of cholesterol is really a way of talking about a brain whose detoxifying system has failed tremendously to the point that it has accumulated undermining quantities of polyunsaturated fat, and in the process has knocked out the protecting function of the cholesterol. I see. Well done. Here's one for you from Trent. Life Extension promotes the drug metformin as an anti-aging drug with many health benefits. What is your opinion of their recommendation, metformin? Metformin? Yeah, metformin. I think it's possibly doing something good by blocking apparently good functions. The basic mechanism is blocking what you would think is a protective pedestrian use, but still the effect is to protect against PUFA just as much as against cholesterol. So that's the anti-aging potential benefits protecting against PUFAs? Yeah, by wasting cholesterol it seems to also take down cholesterol. I see. And we don't necessarily need to do that or want to take down cholesterol, do we? No, but everything about metformin seems sort of surprising and perverse because it's one of the original anti-diabetic drugs that always impaired the mitochondria. It ended up increasing lactic acid and killing people more than protecting them. I found one of these things, one of these diabetes drugs that turned out not to be more deadly than the disease, and so although it does occasionally, sometimes it's very dangerously our cause, lactic acid edema. The average benefit seems to be good. Here's from Robert. If fasting or a low-carb diet is not good for our health, how is it possible that many people who practice low-carb diets and fasting lived maybe to a very old age in good health? For example, Dr. Wolfgang Lutz who lived to 97 in very good health on low-carb diet. I think the thing to pay most attention to are the statistical effects, how often is which thing beneficial. And in many people a low-carb diet leads to depressed metabolism. Depressed metabolism? Yeah, lower thyroid function. I think. Here's an email for you, Dr. P. So, this person has been diagnosed with carcinomic liver cancer and doing and being, oh, she's doing everything she knows how to help it. Do you have any suggestions for helping cells that seem to be growing this mass beyond its borders? She says I have constant diarrhea so nourishment leaves quickly without becoming absorbed. Apparently it's a side effect of the carcinoma. Nothing I've tried has curbed the diarrhea except for some natural supplements that then cause constipation. I have Progeste and take it often during the day. I will buy more and take as much as you think I need. So this would be a good thing for her to be taking Progestes with this carcinoma going on and how much. And do you have some ideas about the carcinomic liver cancer? Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. I think it should be a matter of symptom relief, everything else being similar. If you can control the diarrhea and constipation, the total effects of progesterone is going to be anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic, but if the overall effect is causing diarrhea or constipation, you have to take that into account. So what are some other things she could do for this, this liver cancer? Any ideas? Oh, have you heard about the several studies in China in which they were using, well, two different drugs, but cipro-hepsidine. Oh, cipro-hepsidine, I know that one. Yeah, cause in just two or three weeks, they cause an end to metastatic liver cancer. Really, cipro-hepidine, didn't you tell me about that years ago? I thought you, I think I even have some for histamine, is that the same thing? The lower histamine levels? Both anti-histamines and anti-serotonin. Wow. The drugs are protective against cancer in general, but this, just two or three or four weeks and metastatic, several cases cleared up right away. No kidding. Wow, that's interesting. They're doing that mainly in the orient, using that in the orient? Yeah. Other surprising systemic results come from using other anti-inflammatories, such as local anesthetics, lidocaine, for example. So it's an inflammatory thing, this cancer. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, Patrick and Dr. Pete. I have psoriasis on the nape of my neck and started applying some progestes to it, which has helped tremendously. Wow. I'm 63 in age. Is there anything else I can do? I have a friend who's had breast cancer surgery on the lump and then radiation, which she finished because she used progestes as well. Thank you. I think progesterone is the most basic anti-cancer agent for progesterone-related cancers. Originally, everyone wanted to find the progesterone receptor, what is really causing the action of progesterone. But they couldn't find that in most tissues, or they couldn't identify what it might really be doing. Well, maybe they stopped. Assuming there should be specific progesterone receptors for every function because empirically they saw that progesterone had general functions that always seem to be in the same line. Always protective, always anti-inflammatory. And finally it occurred to someone, maybe they're looking for the wrong thing in the case of progesterone. How can it have two or three different receptors supposedly having different actions if they're all going to act in the same direction? And so when they stopped looking for a specific pair of actions that never showed up, they saw that there was a......generalized action, without exception, cells became responsive to progesterone, so they had been creating an illusion that there was this mysterious, why did both kinds of progesterone function. Why did they have such similar actions? It turns out that when you look for it, it's the mitochondrial... Uh, melanin. Uh, sensitive, uh, so-called progesterone receptor, uh, but it's really, uh, the, uh, energy for producing property of the, uh, mitochondrial substance. The mitochondrial progesterone receptor is, in effect, the mitochondrion function itself. The mitochondrial progesterone receptor is, in effect, the mitochondrial progesterone receptor. Okay, fair enough. Dr. Pete, stay right there. Okay, we're going to do a couple commercials and we'll be right back. We talk about products here. We support ourselves financially on One Radio Network. We have a wonderful line of products that we've been, you know, some of these products we've known these people for, I don't know, 13, 14 years. Daniel Italis and some of the other things, the sulfur and some of the other people. If you are looking for some things to help you stay happy and snappy and stick around a long time without going to the hospital, which is what we try to help you do around here, is go to our website. It is oneradionetwork.com and you go in the store, look on the front page and you'll see all the different people that we promote and we think it's a great lineup of folks. We know it is, that we use everything ourselves, taking all these things, continue to take most everything all the time, the saunas and the sulfur and the perlsium and the blue shield and everything. We just use them all and we think you'll like it. We think you'll like these products. They're all very well done and not just, you know, I don't think you're going to be wasting, I know you'll be happy. You're not going to waste your money on any of the things that we promote. We wouldn't be promoting them continuing for this many years if, you know, people weren't having a good experience with them. Here's a little thing on the sulfur. We like this sulfur. I put it in my water every day. I use a tablespoon twice a day. I think it's a very nice product to take, something that you can take every day without getting messed up, which is unusual. Here's a little bit on that. Dr. Patrick Flanagan has been regarded as one of the most important scientists in the last 50 years. We talked to him about sulfur. There's a product called organic sulfur, and organic sulfur was put into trade in 1865 as organic sulfur. Some people call it MSM or methyl sulfonylmethane, but most of the MSM in health food stores have been contaminated with a kind of silica that prevents its absorption by the body. But anyway, what happens is that if you take a tablespoon of MSM and the organic sulfur in hot water in the morning and a tablespoon in the afternoon... It sulfates 192 different compounds, heavy metals from the periodic table, and once it sulfates them, I'm talking about radioactive elements and other things, once it sulfates them, these sulfates cannot... stay in the human body for more than 12 hours. OneRadioNetwork.com That's pretty cool, huh? Think about all the things that get sulfated and then they move out of the body. You know, I've had a good experience with it forever, and I'm very blessed with good health, so knock on wood. So I think you'll like it. It's very affordable. It's pure. It works. I think it's worth taking every day. Just keep on doing it, baby. And we have a good one. No additives or excipients or anything like that. Pure organic sulfur from OneRadioNetwork.com. And if you like to grow big and strong, here's a good thing to try. Have you ever wondered why elk velvet antler could be good for you? So every year they shed it, and then in the spring they begin growing a new rack and a set of antlers. For three months they grow it. Three months? Think about the biggest moose rack you've ever seen, the biggest elk rack or deer rack you've ever seen. That's three months of growth. That's amazing. So what you have is this organ that starts off as nothing and grows within three months to be an organ that's covered in skin, hair, veins, arteries, nerves. It's totally innervated. It's got bone and osteous tissue and bone marrow. It's essentially a limb. It requires special molecules like growth factors to accelerate the growth of it. And so there's growth factors in there that grow all the types of tissue that are found on it. Bone, bone marrow, nerves, skin, blood. All of that is being grown by these growth factors, and you can put that into your own blood and help yourself regenerate tissue. Well, that's why we use it around here. You can click and order Elk Velvet Antler from Daniel by Talus Survival and Easter Thrival link right here on OneRadioNetwork.com And Easter Thrival link, that's our fave. If you'd like to learn more about the really systemic benefits of getting your own little infrared sauna in your home, you can go to One Radio Network, click on the sauna, the little ad on the sauna and see a video. With Dr. Rhonda Patrick, and she's really an infrared sauna monster, she loves them, but she's looked deeply into some of the benefits and some of the other docs we've had on, talked about them as well, of the heart and the whole thing going on with the heart and saunas. And the benefits, the whole system. Really cool. And it turns out, according to Dr. Patrick, that on this video you'll see, it's a new one, that... The more you do it, the more benefits can be calculated and proven for the whole heart system and the veins and arteries and everything. Saunas. So don't just think about saunas as being a detoxification thing, but also for a really good systemic workout for your body. Your body almost thinks like it's exercising. I don't exercise all that much. I rebound every day and walk and do a few weights, but I'm pretty limited. And I'm in good shape here with working on 76, 77, I don't even know anymore, years in this body. So I think they're good. I've used it every day for probably 10 years. You can see a picture of it here. I'll show you a picture. So it's a personal one. You can see here if you're on video that you sit in it, your head is out, and I've never used those little slots, I don't read, but you can do that if you want. And it's cool. And boy, you'll sweat. So you get far infrared health. And I think you can do this every day. I'm going to do it as long as I'm here. And it's just good for you. You can tell. You can feel it. Just, boy, you know, the body just likes to sweat. Just does. Just does. The Relax Far Infrared sauna, the only way to get this value and the sale price that we offer is to email me. And that's patrickatoneradionetwork.com. patrickatoneradionetwork.com. Just email me and I'll hook you up for the best price regardless of where you live and tell me where you live when you email me and I'll give you the best price we can and you're not going to get a better price anywhere. Guaranteed. No way. No way, Jose. Just not going to. So don't fall for lookalikes too. You'll see saunas on Amazon and other places that look just like this and they sell them for $700 or $800. Ours is $12.95 delivered and they're not the same thing. They just, who knows what's in there. These are saunas that have won several awards for their technique, their technology and they're made in a medical university in Taiwan. And as long as China doesn't take them over, I guess we'll keep having them. I don't even want to think about that one. So just email me and we'll get it done. Patrick at one radio network.com. From the hill country in Texas. This is one radionetwork.com Talking with dr. Ray Pete. He's a PhD. He's been at this for very very long time is a it's a dr Pete.com and you can do his newsletter, which is I'm sorry Ray Pete calm Sorry, Ray Pete calm his newsletter is Ray Pete's newsletter And Ray Pete's newsletter plural at gmail.com and you can you can sign up for that. Dr. Pete Thanks for coming on the show each month. Here's an email for you. My wife is in her 60s And she's recovering from Lyme disease and has chronic upper body pain constant sore muscles her biceps are very weak and her hand and foot tendons Continue to be super tight and injured very easily Wondering what you can give us some ideas and what she could do uh So, she's recovering from Lyme and lots of upper body pain. All of the anti-inflammatory things, especially the antihistamines, anti-serotonin drugs, the vitamin D as a general anti-inflammatory, pro-energy, progesterone and thyroid to get your energy back up and working. So, she has to get her metabolism and everything back up and working after that. Yeah, there's a constant opposition between the availability of energy as ATP derived from glucose and all of the anti-inflammatory constructive functions. So it's energy versus inflammation. Hmm, energy versus inflammation, yeah. Yeah, that drug for the anti-histamine, that could be possibly tried to do that. What was the name of that one you imagined? The antihistamine medicine? Yeah, if I remember to take it, I would stop having the allergic voice symptoms. After an episode of allergy, I have to remember to take my ciproheptadine. Ciproheptadine, yeah, that's the one, ciproheptadine. So do you take that sometimes? You can tell when you don't take it? Oh, sure. The irritation, the tendency to cough is just tremendous. But it's the surest way to stop background inflammation. Background inflammation, ciproheptadine. I think when I bought it for the antihistamine thing, I was getting histamine two years ago. I think I got it on the Mexican or Canadian pharmacy or something. If I remember you could get that online. And you said it was safe, right? It was just little bitty pills? Yeah, for a while you couldn't get it from Mexico because it was liquid. But sometimes you get it through and it's always available as a four milligram tablet. Yeah, it's a little bitty thing, yeah. I took it for a little bit. Seemed to help me, I was sneezing a lot. Could you please ask Dr. Pete on strategies to lower the adrenal response to T3? Lower the adrenal response to T3. If you keep your blood sugar steady, there's no problem, you'll have an adequate response, but not too much. Not for everyone. It can be fine at 80 mg per cent, or it's often fine for a while at 150 mg per cent, or right at 30 mg. No, an absolute number of 150 mg per cent. And then it should just normally go back to your mainline, whatever that is, 70, 80, 90. Yeah. Okay, here's Richard. He said he's a senior with blood sugar 200. Wow, eat good food, bike and stay active. I'm trying your milk and orange juice regimen, but sugar is still high. What could I do? He wants to know what he can get this down to naturally. Would leaving a red light in the bedroom overnight help reduce inflammation and cortisol? So he's got two questions. So blood sugar is pretty high, 200, right? That's more higher than we want, right? Yeah, and thyroid is often the problem. Low thyroid. Yeah, you should be able to get it below 100 if you have residual good functioning thyroid. So he should check his thyroid and your best number, if I recall, the TSH wants to be 0.5 or below, correct? Yes. Preferably well below that. Even well below? I mean, as low as you can. Like, almost zero, if you got a TSH of almost zero. Yeah, I haven't found any satisfying idea of an essential function of TSH. As far as I can tell, it's all pro-inflammatory. It's pro-inflammatory. Wow. It's crazy. So his second question, he wants to know if leaving a red light in the bedroom overnight can reduce inflammation and cortisol. Uh, yeah. Got it? Uh, it doesn't always work, but very often it's helpful. But often it will work, just reducing cortisol, just a red light. Mm-hmm. Wow. Um... Here's Harris. Hypothetically, what would Dr. Pete do for... I don't know, man, I'm going to have to spell this, Dr. Pete. C-A-R-C-I-N-O-I-D syndrome. Is that familiar? Carcinoid syndrome. Say it again, syndrome? C-A-R-C-I-N-O-I-D syndrome. Hmm. C-A-R-C-I-N-O-I-D syndrome. C-A-R-C-I-N-O-I-D? Yeah, C-A-R-C-I-N-O-I-D, yeah. Yeah, that's a small, not too dangerous tumor that produces serotonin. It can be very dangerous, can make a person completely nonfunctional. Hmm. Can cause tumors in places that destroy your functions. It's the syndrome of very high serotonin action, and that, the whole pattern leading to serotonin access should be taken care of. More thyroid, more anti-estrogen consideration, pro-progesterone and so on. Mm-hmm. We ran a video of a doctor this morning. He was addressing the idea that people think that, pretty interesting video, that people think that meat putrefies in your gut, you know, in your colon and all that. And he showed all kinds of things in people in colostomy bags, you know, and he said, that's not the case. And he talked to a lady, you know, these colostomy bags they put on people, these, you know, sometimes, who has worked with thousands of these bags, filled them and, you know, emptied them and everything. And she said she found, not meat in there, but she found things like nuts and corn and oats in these bags. My colostomy bags. I didn't get the last phrase you said. Often times in these bags, these mossy bags, what do they call them? How do you explain that? Not so hard, I guess, to digest, huh? Uh-huh. Dr. Pete, this is Rich. Do you have any solutions for heavy metal toxicities or glyphosate toxicity? Glyphosate or heavy metals? Uh, yeah, I think enough. Uh, Stephanie Seneff has written a lot about, uh, the glyphosate, but, uh, she, uh, it's mostly, uh, to be cautious, uh, she hasn't, uh, uh, uh, proved, proved exactly what's going wrong, but I, I think it's an, an, uh, analogous process, uh, to, uh, endotoxin poisoning and estrogen. Uh, uh, glyphosate is a watery, uh, disruptor, uh, of the, uh, uh, anti-estrogen, uh, anti, uh, uh, endotoxin processes. She's often talked about, too, how it, it really tangles up the whole sulfur cycle as well, which inhibits people to get toxins out of the body. Interesting. And they've done some blood tests on lots of people, even people who eat organically, and they seem, these glyphosates are getting around, aren't they? I mean... It seems like they're everywhere. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Okay, here's somebody that's taking Levothyroxine. Do you know that one, Dr. Pete? Levothyroxine. And was diagnosed with Hashimoto's. I do some experimentation at times to try to help myself. I began taking a product for thyroid support. And he was taking this thyroid support with a blend of Hydroxocortisol, acetate, and Gugulesterone extract, iodine, and selenium. And the results of taking this supplement have been surprising. I've been able to cut my Levothyroxine dosage in half. My heart palpitations have significantly diminished. No more loose stools. Could you possibly tell me what could be going on? The MDs don't have a clue. Wow. Yeah. Well, MDs invented the problem many years ago. Levothyroxine is simply not the thyroid hormone. It's a drug alternative that doctors unthinkingly are kind of forced to prescribe. They can actually lose their license if they question the appropriateness of Levothyroxine or even the propriety of... of questioning the proper level of TSH. Libosyroxine is pretty good at lowering TSH, but it doesn't necessarily have all of the thyroid, anti-thyroid or thyroid defects. So you can lower your TSH with it and get some benefit, but just lowering the TSH might not be enough to get the benefits. Because you actually need the ability to convert. The T4 levothyroxine to convert it into the active T3 as well as to lower the TSH. So she might be on the right track with low inner dosage of the levothyroxine. You really should look at, every time you have a test, you should check to see that your TSH is appropriate for the level of levothyroxine. What would be the best healing protocol procedure for a person who is 47-year-old recovering alcoholic, popaholic, smoker, with a colostomy bag, wow, since 24, now in a hospital with heart and liver issues? Wow, they got a lot going on here. Anything they could do for somebody in a hospital with that going on? For what purpose? Just as recovering alcoholic and drinking a lot of sugar and smoking and want to get some advice to help this person. It's a tough one, huh? Oh, it could be that they would run into good advice in the hospital. Dr. Pete, a few months ago my dog killed a squirrel and I think it made him sick. The next three days he wouldn't eat and was having thick black sludge diarrhea. He also insisted on staying outside in 20 Fahrenheit weather or he could hide in a bush. Since then he mostly has diarrhea. Once or twice a week he won't eat the whole day. Do you have any idea what could be wrong? What could I do? Boy, that squirrel must have been nasty, huh? What does he think caused it? Yeah, the dog killed a squirrel. And that's when all this started. I don't know how that would work, but... I should check, if he had a change in bowel function, he might have been exposed to, uh, microbes. Yeah, yeah, that's what it sounds like, cause he's, this, he says that the dog had this diarrhea once or twice a week, and he wouldn't eat for a while, so, this squirrel was full of something, right, that he just didn't, was not happy. Yeah, I'm not a vet, but to this person, I would say put him on raw meat, I think that's your best choice for a carnivore, dogs, I think, for what it, well, I think that's the best way to go, and he's probably going to find his way out of that one. Uh, here's an email, can thyroid hormone help with a metastasized cancer? Thyroid hormone help with a metastasized cancer. Yeah, it sometimes brings back your balance between estrogens and the anti-analympic thyroid. But keeping in mind all of the inflammatory things is important. I've been looking more at oxalates, writes Brenda, and she wants to know if milk or butter helps with lowering the oxalate intake with potatoes and black tea. Oxalates? No, they can contribute to our kidney stones. Uh-oh. No, I don't think it has much effect. You're going to get them either way, huh? Mm-hmm. Do you think the oxalates in a baked potato are worth avoiding baked potatoes? No, I think it takes a diet fairly high and consistent to see any effects. Oh, so you'd have to eat a whole bunch of them. To have some oxalate issues, you say? Yeah, the sort of astringent leaves and potatoes are, in total I think so. Yeah. Yeah, I think one of the high ones, what, um, highest ones in oxalates, I used to know, chard, chard's really high, and spinach, right, still? Oh, yeah, but, uh, occasional. Uh, chard, chard is so tasty. Yeah. It's pretty good, yeah. What's the minimum milligrams of calcium needed to prevent osteoporosis in the sedentary people in their 70s and 80s? So we have a 70 or 80 year old and the minimum milligrams of calcium to prevent osteoporosis. It depends on the balance between vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, calcium and magnesium. But really it should be at least a thousand milligrams. Generally about a thousand, and that's pretty easy to get with food, right? Yeah, milk and cheese and some vegetables. I hear somebody said they're confused about using baking soda for cancer. Heard Dr. Pete mention in one of your shows that it would take one and a half or 40 grams a day, but I'm not sure how to take it. There are many suggestions on the net using maple syrup too. It's not clear what's the best way to take baking soda. Yeah, Simoncini really had some effects, but his silly talk about that showing that cancer was a fungus just didn't make sense. In fact, there's a very powerful, very widespread effect of both carbon dioxide and baking soda on suppressing cancer development. Carbon dioxide too. Have you used the carbon dioxide that I sent you, that little thing that you could put around your body? I'm going to try it. Yeah, sitting in a bathtub with the drain taped up or just in a big plastic bag. Sure. Yeah, I haven't got mine yet. I'm looking at it and it appears, Doc, that you can buy a tank that's aluminum so it's not so heavy to carry after you fill that baby up, you know, and you had suggested to get a, did you tell me, a 2K or 20K? 10K? I think the ones I use are only 10 kilograms. 10 kilograms. Mm-hmm. And would that last for a while if you filled that baby up with CO2? Yeah, just an occasional bathtub. I forget how many you got, something like seven or eight. Oh, that'd be good, yeah, and then get it filled up again. So I'm going to try. Have you done that recently? Have you done it? Use the carbon dioxide bathtub thing? Yeah, I've done it twice in the last two days. Oh, been doing it more often. I'm going to try it. I'll let you know. Well, Dr. Pete, now we got through all the emails. Thanks for coming on the show. You take care of yourself. Drink your milk, orange juice, and you can do raypeat.com and look at his website. Oh, okay. Thanks, Doc. You take care, okay? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Bye-bye. Dr. Ray Pete, OneRadioOneNetwork.com. What a nice man, huh? Yep. Yeah, I've been looking at that, and you can actually find a tank, aluminum, I'm going to get a 10k tank, and then they have a place, I sent Dr. Pete, I'll send you one too, I think it was like 50 bucks, and you get this, it's like a body bag thing, and you put it up to here, and you just put the CO2 in there, and then just hang out in CO2, and it's really good for you. So we're going to do that, I'll let you know. We're always experimenting with stuff. We're gonna have a fun show tomorrow, we have two people, Brandon Smith and he's been looking into an organization, you're going to love this one. This one is run by, um... The Rothschilds. So you know this is going to be good. The Rothschilds, it's called inclusive capitalism. These are the people, and also a lot of the bankers and all the boys are in on this inclusive capitalism, and they are the ones that do the legwork for Klaus Schwab. They're the think tanks. The Klaus Schwab people, right, in the world economic forum, the crazies, and then the inclusive capitalism people, they're the ones out there working with all, you know, paying off senators and kind of... It's crazy. We're going to play a video, and this is what they have and trying to push on us next. So this is fun. It'll be tomorrow, and then tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock central, Moses West, he's out of San Antonio and Austin. And he's building machines, and I don't know how much they cost or anything, we'll find it all out tomorrow, but I've seen them, the videos, it's amazing. And they're just taking water out of the air, there's humidity, there's water everywhere. And I've seen it, he's got a huge machine, pretty big one, like two refrigerators big, and it just dumps water out like a faucet like this, and it just keeps going, it just keeps going. I want, I want one. It says distilled water. So we're going to talk to him, he created this thing. And then Adam will be here, Adam Bergstrom on Wednesday, Adam 2.0, he's on the third Wednesday. And then we have somebody else on Wednesday as well. Oh, Matthew Eret, who's looking into what China and Russia are up to. And they're doing more than playing cards tonight together, baby. So we may need to learn Mandarin or Russian if things keep going the way they are. So, I love you all very much. I will see you tomorrow. And we'll talk about making water in your backyard. And take care. Love you. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com