 For listeners supported, One Radio Network. Well, a very pleasant good day to you. This is Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Another week of broadcast for you. Dr. Pollard, Gerald Pollack will be on this week sometime. A lot of interesting people that I won't get into right now, so stay tuned. Check in with our Facebook page, we talk about things, and also the guests, and sign up for our... our newsletter on OneRadioNetwork.com. OneRadioNetwork.com. This morning, we are going to spend a little time with someone who visits us from time to time. His name is Dr. Ray Pete. Ray Pete has been studying these kinds of things that we talk about in health for just an incredible, incredibly long time. PhD goes way back. He's studying... Oh, um... specializing in physiology, and he did work on hormones back in 68. He wrote his dissertation on hormones, 72, on progesterone. And his main thesis is that energy and structure are interdependent at every level. Energy and structure, interdependent on every level. And it's the third Monday of the month, and we have lots of great questions for him. And we'll say hi to Dr. Pete. Good morning, Dr. Ray Pete. How are you, sir? Good morning. Very good. Yeah. So how does this idea that energy and structure are interdependent, how would this bring a little context to what we're experiencing these days on planet Earth with everything going on with this virus? A Russian soil biochemist more than a hundred years ago, at the very beginning of the 20th century, was trying to figure out how such deep soil came to exist in a big part of Russia, feet of good, rich soil, feet deep. And he, over the years, developed the idea of the possibilities that were generated just by the streaming of energy from the sun being absorbed by the earth, and in this stream of energy the various things developed, like chlorophyll, that were able to catch the energy acting like an antenna so that a red light, for example, that isn't nearly as energetic as blue light or ultraviolet but with this antenna, chlorophyll can... capture the energy in a way that is just exactly enough to remove hydrogen from water and attach it to carbon dioxide, creating sugar. And following that idea that a certain structure tunes into the......streaming energy, all powered primarily by the Sun, some of it apparently by internal, maybe nuclear energy in the Earth, some kind of heat source in the Earth. But the streaming energy, even though much of it is fairly low energy, such as red light. If you have the right structure, like an antenna, it will tune into it and use it to build new substance. And then that substance can be run through another structure in an animal or in the plant during the night. So that the energy that was put in by that antenna from the sunlight... can be drawn out just as much energy as the plant put in can be used by the sleeping, the nighttime plant or by an animal to create all kinds of structures in the animal as the hydrogen returns. To the oxygen forming water, starting just with water and carbon dioxide, the flow of energy creates all of these structures of plants and animals and ultimately can build up extreme changes in the soil, creating a rich water system. A world ecology that supports all kinds of agriculture and industry and so on. And what has been going on for hundreds of years is people extracting too much energy, destroying the structure, deforesting the continents. Letting the soil dry up and blow away so these stored structures and energies are being depleted. The whole West Coast now has been mostly deforested of the old massive sequoias, redwoods, pine and fir forests. And they used to store huge amounts of water and energy, and with them gone, the moderating influence is lost, and so the summers become very hot, the winters colder than normal. And you get destabilized weather, so the deforestation is really the main climate changer, the whole continent has been changed to lose that moderating influence. People often don't realize how important the massive... living wood of a forest is during the winter months when there isn't much energy being captured from the sun. If you look at the carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere in the northern hemisphere, it rises to a peak in the springtime. And then, as the leaves flourish under the summer sun, the atmospheric carbon dioxide decreases. So, by the end of the summer, you're back about 4, 5, 6 percent lower, and a big part, maybe something like 40 percent of this rise in carbon dioxide during the winter is coming. But from the trunks of trees, the seemingly inert massive block of wood all across the northern hemisphere, this is metabolizing just like an animal putting out large amounts of carbon dioxide into the air. But as those trunks are turned into lumber, they stop refreshing. The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and also fail to humidify the atmosphere as they're using the energy. A friend of mine who had an infrared camera mounted on his car driving in the winter noticed big white forms in the dark Indicating warm trunks of trees They were standing out like a warm animals would in the infrared emissions showing that the trunks of large trees are emitting Infrared warmth into the environment So, as we humans just deforest more of planet Earth, are you making the case that we can generally expect more variations in climate, warmer and colder in some places? Yeah, unless we spend the next hundred years reforesting the northern hemisphere, it has already been changed so much. The trees don't regrow as vigorously as they used to, but one benefit is that the total carbon dioxide is higher, so that will stimulate regeneration. So when all this deforestation and the fires are going on in California, does that affect someone in Texas or New York, their weather? When the fires were burning, you could see from the satellite pictures, you could see streams of smoke going 2,000 miles, they were visible. But not only the pollution, Dr. P, but just the long-term effects of what you just described so eloquently on the trees and the relation with the climate, that affects all of North America just from the deforestation in California's long-term weather? Yeah, and all around the hemisphere, the circulating atmosphere goes from Siberia to the U.S. to Europe. So there's no telling what kind of weather we'll experience in five years or ten years. It could be colder, or it could be hotter, just depending on where you are and the way the winds are blowing? Yeah, the weather scientists, up until, I think it was 1976, was that when Three Mile Island happened, Time magazine and all of the mass media were periodically reporting the prediction of a coming ice age anytime in the next decades. Since the 1940s, they'd been talking about the expected cooling of the planet. And then suddenly, following Three Mile Island, when people were starting to realize the dangers of nuclear energy. An article released from the Pentagon just two or three months after Three Mile Island to create a distraction that nuclear energy wasn't a danger. They started the climate, planetary warming fear caused by burning coal and oil. Creating a propaganda basis for shifting from fossil fuels to nuclear energy because the Pentagon depends on the spent fuel material produced for nuclear electricity production is what the Pentagon uses for making bombs. And bullets and stuff, they do these bullets that have this magic stuff on them. And so what year, who did this and what year? That was 1976, since then there's been no talk of a coming ice age, it's all planetary warming. And that's, sir, and then 76 was NASA that began the propaganda on the global warming? Yeah, a paper from the Pentagon Pentagon. So the Pentagon, the war people need this spent material to, I think they, they coat bullets in it, too. I think they didn't have all kinds of stuff. Right? Yeah, they use the depleted uranium depleted. That's the word I'm looking for. To make super heavy missiles that will go right through an inch of steel, because of the high energy and weight. Wow. So, and there are people that are arguing now, if you look at the sunspot people, are making some pretty interesting conjectures that we are going to experience kind of a mini ice age going forward. Yeah, the sun-studying experts are still predicting that they haven't been received very well in the mass media. It doesn't quite go along with the man-made global warming thing. I guess it's possible, right, that we could experience a mini ice age? I mean, if the Sunspot people are correct. They're pretty close, aren't they, generally? Yeah, within ten years or something like that. Ten or twenty years. Dr. Ray Pete is with us. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. It's RayPete.com. His newsletter is RayPete'sNewsletter at Gmail.com, right, Dr. Ray Pete's Newsletter. Yeah, Pete, with an S. With an S, Pete's, right, at Gmail.com. If you'd like to get on his list, and I think every couple months you get a nice email, very affordable, get his newsletter. So here we are, gosh, almost to the end of the year with this virus thing. Have you had any other insights, Dr. Ray Pete, of what you think could be going on here? Any predictions on how long it'll last? These kinds of things. What are you thinking with your research and with your gut about what's going on here? In what area? With the corona, in the corona. Oh, if you look at the warnings that have been coming for ten years from the Rockefeller Foundation and then from the World Economic Forum and the Gates Foundation. For example, the meeting they had in New York. is about a year ago in the fall of 2019. They were outlining in detail what to do for a corona epidemic or pandemic. They proposed the lockdown and all of the measures were publicized to world leaders, China, Europe, Russia. All of the major countries, especially those that participate in the World Economic Forum. were given the plans what to do when the coronavirus mutates supposedly from animals in the Southern Hemisphere and become able to infect Americans with the danger of killing millions of people. All of this was put out ready to disseminate. As soon as they were ready to actually identify such a virus, so almost simultaneously with the supposed release of a virus or appearance of a virus in China, this meeting was going on teaching people. How to respond to it, how to be afraid of it, to believe that it is going to kill lots of people. And they did such a tremendous job of creating fear in the population that there were surveys of young people in their 20s asking them, how to respond to it, how to be afraid of it, to believe that it is going to kill lots of people. And they did such a tremendous job of creating fear in the population that there were surveys of young people in their 20s asking them, how to respond to it, how to be afraid of it, it, how many people of their generation did they think would die from it, and I think it was a majority of them said it might be several percent of their own generation rather than almost no one in their age group. So it was a vastly exandrated. Infectivity and virulence of the virus and if you look at those public records of how the thing was programmed in advance there really was no factual basis for identifying a pandemic or epidemic. Nothing was really happening that didn't happen every winter. In the past, they didn't test widely for coronaviruses. But when they did, it was about as frequent in hospital patients as flu virus or syncytial respiratory virus. The major things that caused colds. And influenza-like symptoms never were purely influenza. They were a mixture, including coronavirus. So if they had been testing widely five or ten years ago, they would have been finding similar rates of infection and mortality every winter. So looking at the best facts, it turns out that nothing happened. Except a planned fear epidemic. A fear epidemic. And I guess it would be easy to argue that if people are in fear then they could feel all kinds of things going on with their immune system and think they're sick and are really sick. They can make themselves sick. That's fair, right? Yeah. If they have a cough and a fever, they were told that that means coronavirus. And so they would go to the hospital to get treated but there was no treatment for it. But the hospitals were being paid extra if they diagnosed a corona infection. And some hospitals were putting people down even after they tested negative for coronavirus. There is documentation that some hospitals were switching them over to the corona cases. And in many cases they were then intubating them and pumping oxygen-rich air into their lungs. And in the best circumstances, when you put someone on a respirator for several days, their likelihood of ever coming off the respirator alive is very small. So much of mortality was the result of the treatment. For example, an Italian doctor working in Europe. He wrote articles on proper treatment of people with respiratory disease, and he, after outlining his proper treatment, a gentle provision of a small amount of extra oxygen, but not under pressure, not forcing it in. In his hospital, there were zero. deaths from respiratory disease and hospital, also in Berlin, I think it was, nearby hospital, the mortality rate of respiratory patients was 60 percent, so an all or nothing difference simply depending. on scientific treatment or a panic-induced treatment. Hmm. Wow, it's amazing that this continues to go on now we, um... Is it true, in your opinion, that these tests, um, just don't show that someone actually has some unique, virulent, communicable, potentially deadly virus to share? Since the best figures on the death rate per infection, when you confirm an infection, the death rate is one eighth of a percent. It was right down with the annual so-called influenza infections, which usually consisted of a mixture of either bacteria or different viruses or the influenza virus or a mixture. In about half the cases, they couldn't identify a pathogen, it was probably just stress-induced pneumonia. Which happens in old people, their intestine stops working, they absorb endotoxin that creates serotonin and histamine which causes edema of the lungs and pneumonia. As far as the evidence actually connects deaths to confirmed corona. infection, it's no more deadly than what has happened every winter, basically forever. Basically forever. Dr. Ray Pete, stay right there, sir. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, it's just very curious what's going on, isn't it? I'm glad you could join us today. It's a pleasure to be here. We are live with Dr. Pete on October 19th. We're going to do some shows live. Dr. Pete doesn't do the camera thing. He isn't all set up. Like me, he's not a geeky guy. And so he is just on the phone and so we're doing him live. So you can get your questions in. We have a lot. We're going to get to them all. There's a nice big sale going on right now. With one of our long-time advertisers, Daniel Vitalis and Sir Thrivell, save 15% on colostrum and digestive bitters. Really, really nice products. Use the code HEALTHYGUT. Just spell it out, HEALTHYGUT, and you'll get yourself a nice little discount there. Use the promo code HEALTHYGUT. Colostrum and both digestive bitters have been shown to be very effective with helping the... Digestion on all levels, and these bitters are nice, they come in little spray bottles, so you just go psh psh, actually put one in your glove compartment, it doesn't get too hot in there, and then you can, if you go out to eat, you can do that before you go in. And also a little bit of colostrum, Dr. Massey has said that it could be a really nice thing to do as well before you go out to eat, that it helps any kind of strange usual suspects that you might get in restaurant food to not cause as much problems in your tummy. So you can do both of those. So it's all about digestion now, great sale, healthy gut is the promo code on survival, save 15% on both of these products. We're going to talk to Gerald Pollock tomorrow, I believe he's here. He's physicist, biologist, chemist, Dr. Gerald Pollock on Far Infrared Sonus. Far Infrared energy is what builds this fourth phase of water. And the idea of a sauna, you know, you go in and you sweat and you receive this infrared energy and you feel great after you come out. I felt the same and so have so many people and most of us think, well, you know, it's just some sort of psychological issue and it might be, however, experimentally we know that infrared energy builds the fourth phase. It should be filled with this fourth phase, but we tend to be somewhat dehydrated and missing some of this fourth phase. What happens is if you subject yourself to the infrared, the infrared is absorbed by your body, absorbed by yourself, and it converts ordinary water to fourth phase water, and then you feel better. According to Pollock, and again we're going to talk to him tomorrow, it's been several years. He's really an interesting fellow. According to him, the infrared, far-infrared, I suspect the NIR does too, I don't know, it actually helps structure the water in your body, he was saying the far-infrared turns your body into more of this fourth phase stuff, and this is the same goo that Dr. Thomas Cowan argues, and others that are in the blood vessels that are really encouraging the blood to go around the body, you know, like the sap in trees, this fourth phase of water in the blood vessels, and it's not the heart, according to Dr. Cowan's arguments and research, it's not the heart that's pumping everything. It is really the whole body that's doing the pumping through this fourth phase of water. So you'll probably hear from Dr. Pollack maybe Thursday or so, but stay tuned, we'll let you know. We're going to record it tomorrow and then we're going to have it this week. Dr. Gerald Pollack on OnRadioNetwork.com And if I hit the right button here, I think we're going to be just fine. And we're talking with Dr. Ray Pete. He's kind enough to come by and visit with us on the third Monday of every month. And as I said before, we generally are able to do it live because we're just doing a telephone thing. We still got a few clicks on your line, but I don't think it's a showstopper, Doc, so we're just going to continue. But you may want to call your little phone company later and say, would you check my clicks? Bye. Who knows? Ah, my goodness. So, before we start taking some emails, I'm sure you've heard all the talk about the exosomes and the colons, and there's some people in the world that are really arguing that there really, really isn't some virus going around that you and I are getting, that the body's creating these exosomes when they get poisoned, and that's what we're sharing in all of that. I think the last time we talked, you were kind of sorta on that idea, not necessarily all in, but... I think all organisms have been shedding their genetic information in different ways. And the exosomes, pretty much for the last 50 years, they've been identified. It's only the last 15 years that there's really much study going on. And... Internally, they are now recognized as a maintenance repair process when a tissue is under stress, it sends out... these exosomes secreted into the bloodstream and lymphatic system and are carried to the bone marrow, for example, where replacement cells and repair cells can be made. So there's a two-way communication going constantly, and it increases under stress, and some of these can escape. For example, from the lungs, coughing or sneezing can blow saliva and mucus into the air, carrying some of these exosomes. And so, it is only a new branch of biology, but the basis. It has been understood for 80 years or more that there seems to be sharing of genetic information across species all over the world, genes or fragments of genes are drifting around and being absorbed by other species and viruses. We have a structure similar to these exosomes which are named exosomes with reference to the individual cell that creates them and they're external to the cell but they've been studied as an internal communication process. Exosomes in the sense of being external to the body and in that situation then they can function as viruses and under an electron microscope many of them have a complicated structure and can be confused for virus particles and in fact there are no very good electron microscope studies confirming that there is such a thing as a coronavirus in these infected people the coronavirus has been imaged over the last 20 years but this particular coronavirus no one has caught enough of them to really study it visually under the microscope Yeah, oh, so that's what Cowan's group has argued that they have people out there looking for it and But they nobody's ever really found it and you said so you're saying that only because They just haven't found enough of it The testing is now somewhat more scientific. For a while they were mixing together PCR tests which simply amplify any trace of nucleic acid that resembles those in the virus. And those tests were even questionable since no one......proved that the original sample that they used as a reference, that that was actually present in the infected people. So the PCR test itself, its meaning was not generally agreed on. And then the antibodies, based on a blood test, were being mixed in and... All of these positive tests, with their different meaning, were being called cases, even though the person wasn't sick. A positive test in a healthy person still allowed them to be called a case of coronavirus. And in some cases, if they happen to die of any cause, they can still be called a case of coronavirus. After having a positive test, they were put down as a coronavirus death. And there is now called a rapid antigen test, which uses traditional immunology tests to identify different antigens on the virus. And so that seems like a more... reasonable test, assuming that they had the real thing to standardize their test on. Do they have the real thing to standardize their test? That's what is in question. We don't know. We don't know. Well, I guess as long as the world in general continue to connect, Dr. Pete, the testing positive with cases, this is just going to go on, it seems like, right? I mean, there's more lockdowns in Europe and in France and the UK are doing passports for people with, as you see this, what they're proposing in the UK is if you test positive, or if you test negative, you'll get a little passport and you can go out without a mask and if you test positive, well then you can't. Yeah, and the rising number of cases in the places that I've looked at the data, the increasing testing has corresponded exactly to the increased number of cases and so if you test 10 times as many people this week as you did last week, it looks like you have 10 times as many cases and so you have an epidemic of. testing rather than a natural sickness epidemic. Yes, sir. Well, very, very curious. Ray Pete is with us, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Let's dig into a few emails for you, Dr. Pete. This is from... Grace. She says, Rhoda Barnes method for diagnosing thyroid issue is simple. Physicians do not agree with this method or diagnosis. If a male or female over 55 low body temperatures consistently decides to supplement thyroid, which one seems like an optimal option? Sino-male or Sino-plus and why the preference? Sino-plus or Sino-plus is the balanced T4-T3 in a 4 to 1 ratio, which is similar to the glandular tissue that occurs in humans, pigs and cows and so on. For the first hundred years of thyroid supplements, they used the meat packing industries, thyroid glands dehydrated. That is what Rhoda Barnes researched in the 1930s when he wrote this book. He solved the riddle of heart attacks, for example, and hypothyroidism, the unsuspected illness. He was doing actually field work, empirical study, showing the association of the metabolic rate and the symptoms of hypothyroidism. And then he found that hypothyroidism was a very common disease in the United States, and he used it in his research. And he found that hypothyroidism was a very common disease in the United States, and he at that time the recognized absolute definition of hypothyroidism was to measure the oxygen consumption or the carbon dioxide production, same thing, but the oxygen consumption per minute at rest. And that, it took a... an apparatus that cost a couple hundred dollars that many doctors had in their offices, and the patient would just come in before eating, lie down quietly, and breathe through the machine for two or three minutes. And if they were hypothyroid, they would only use a very small amount of... air per minute. If they were hypothyroid, they could go through the reservoir of air in half the time or a fourth of the time. So it's very easy to do and is absolutely definitive. A person can't live on half the normal amount of oxygen if they're hypothyroid. They're producing energy if the energy is flowing through their system at a proper rate. And that reduced flow of energy is what leads to the accumulation of jellied edema under their skin is where you see a thickening of the subcutaneous layers. Thickening of the blood vessels, increasing blood pressure problems, strokes, everything circulatory and dependent on energy becomes a problem when the energy isn't flowing through the system. And Rhoda Barnes found that simply taking the temperature orally, well, he advocated... under the armpit temperature, if you would lie for 10 or 15 minutes with a thermometer in your armpit, he found that that was as reliable as the oxygen test, almost. But he was, most of his career, he worked in Colorado Springs where the climate is cool. And so hypothyroid people would be exposed most of the year to a cool climate. And so their low temperature always showed up. I found in a warm Eugene summer where the humidity is high, many hypothyroid people during the summer would have approximately normal temperatures. But their heart would still be pumping very very slowly, sometimes way down into the 35 to 40 beats per minute range, never up into the 75 to 85 range where a normal metabolizing person has a heart rate even during warm weather. So his temperature......basis for diagnosis was extremely scientific, but it was dismissed under the influence of drug company advertising when a product, Synthroid, came on the market which consisted only of thyroxine, T4. That was tested on young men. Healthy young men, medical students, no women were tested and they found that the effect of synthetic thyroxine was the same as the standardized glandular armor thyroid product and on that basis of equivalency they then began testing the blood content of iodine to confirm the presence of the thyroid hormone so first they didn't test the synthroid on females and females have several times the incidents of low thyroid problems because of the effective estrogen uh... blocking thyroid secretion uh... and so all of the women who were uh... getting along uh... with a uh... glandular thyroid uh... supplement were shifted over uh... to synthetic thyroid and began uh... suffering the the symptoms of hypothyroidism uh... and uh... in that population of improperly treated uh... mostly women uh... most of the patients were women uh... they found that the blood tests showed very few women were actually deficient in protein-bound iodine and so they said even though someone has hypothyroid symptoms. 95% of those showed that they have enough iodine in the blood so they created the illusion based on an improper diagnosis of who is hypothyroid to say that only 5% of the people have any blood evidence of hypothyroidism. Using that test for about 20 years, they discovered it had absolutely no relation to hypothyroidism. And at that point, they shifted to testing the thyroid-stimulating hormone, TSH, as the technology developed to measure that very small trace hormone in the blood. And so that test, which became very specific... and technically accurate, was imposed on this false belief that 95% of the population are not hypothyroid. And so they stretched the definition of what the normal TSH should be, to fit this... untreated hypothyroid, mainly female population. So now we have the dogmatic medical opinion that no one should receive a thyroid supplement if their TSH is in the range of from 0.5 to usually now 4.5 on the scale. And I've never seen anyone... at all healthy, who had two or higher on that scale. And the healthiest populations are in the range below 0.4. On the TSH, on the TSH, yeah. So what the diagnostic standard is now for normal includes very few normal... functionally healthy people, but it's simply saying that being hypothyroid is now normal for the American population. Oh, what a fascinating... If you're the average hypothyroid person, then the combination of T4, T3 product of Sinoplus is going through. Most likely take care of your symptoms. The T3 has become popular among bodybuilders because you can instantly get hyperthyroid. It can be very stressful to take a replacement dose of T3 very suddenly. Please. T3 tend to take a whole tablet at once, and the body produces only about at most a tenth of a tablet equivalent per hour, so the doses they're using in bodybuilding and so on are about ten times too high. T3 can be useful, for example. The first time I heard about its use was a woman who was in a hypothyroid coma while taking four grains equivalent or 400 micrograms of synthroid. The more synthroid she took, the deeper she went into the coma. Within two or three hours of giving the right amount of T3 intravenously, she was out of the coma and immediately returned to good health. So some T3 is absolutely essential and women are the most likely to be deficient in the ability to make their own T3. So occasionally, small amounts of T3 can bring a person out of the coma. A problem, but the maintenance should be the combination of either a glandular or a sinoplus. And the sinoplus in those, people get those at those Mexican pharmacies, right, you talked about? Yeah. But the T3, like you were saying, if you're going to mess with that, you just do a very little bit, right? Yeah, a tenth of a tablet gives you a very noticeable acceleration of your heart rate and oxygen consumption. Tenth of a tablet. Those are small little tablets. It's pretty tricky to do a tenth, right? I guess with a razor blade? Or you can get a pill crusher and just make powder out of it. Divide it up? Yeah, divide it. Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Here is Thomas and he's in Sweden. Thomas has frequent headaches. And what I've come to understand lately, they're kind of, I guess would be classified as migraines. For some reason they... Chip. Trippin class of migraine drugs that work on raising serotonin, at least as I understand it, seem to work quite well, where no other pain medications has done much at all for me. I'd be very interested to hear Dr. Pete's general idea about the cause of migraines, especially since, as most know by now, he's no fan of serotonin. My own experience with migraines was what got me interested in endocrinology many years ago. And I soon found out that women have the majority of migraines, just like they have the majority of hypothyroidism, about the same frequency, because it's very closely related. And vasodilation in the brain, swelling of arteries, is one of the problems. And constricting arteries can stop the problem, but the trouble is that... serotonin slows metabolism, can interfere with the actual production of active T3 hormone, and it tends to constrict veins and the outflow of blood, as well as the arteries that are causing the throbbing and pain. So even though it can... stop the throbbing pain, it isn't solving the problem. And serotonin turns out to be high in migraineurs. That's been known from the early days of studying serotonin metabolism. They saw that both histamine and serotonin are increased in... migraine during an attack. And my own experience was that thyroid supplements were the main preventive thing, but I had also noticed that skipping a meal, for example on the weekend when I changed my meal schedule, was when I would end up with a migraine. And that's a common experience, the low blood sugar and interference with the intestines rhythm. Going back to the 1920s, a medical professor demonstrated, he was arguing that headaches aren't caused by toxins but by pressure. And he... had his medical students stuff cotton wads into their rectums and the next day, those who suffered from migraines and other headaches reported that they had their headache, demonstrating that in a sensitive person, pressure in the lower intestine would bring on a headache. And that... helps to explain why changing your meal rhythm helps to bring on a headache, because especially if you have eaten something that's hard to digest, that irritates the intestine and tends to cause congestion or pressure in the intestine, when that's combined with a declining blood glucose. That combination is what triggers the headache, and so thyroid supplements decrease the irritability of the intestine, keep your blood sugar steady, but added to that, if you have a daily carrot diet or other fiber in your diet that helps to avoid stasis and congestion in the intestine. That combination is preventive of the headaches and also happens to prevent surges of histamine and serotonin. The intestine is the source of almost all the body's serotonin. 95% of the serotonin is produced in the intestine. The intestine is the main source of the serotonin.  The serotonin is transported through the blood to the lungs where most of it is detoxified and if there's extra inflammation in the intestine from pressure or unadjusted food, then the burden on the lungs to detoxify the serotonin is increased. A decrease in blood sugar lowers the ability to detoxify the serotonin and then you get the veins of the brain are constricting, allowing congestion of the volume of blood in the head increases even though the consumption of oxygen. And sugar has decreased so it turns out that serotonin coming from hypothyroid digestive related problem, the excess serotonin becomes an essential cause of the headache. Very interesting. So that's, you're kind of a big fan of doing these carrot salads, right? Almost for anybody. Just the great carrots, right? Yeah, for example, a woman, a clinic for fertility, accidentally found out that giving the infertile women an antibiotic, a lot of them said their headaches were cured by taking the antibiotic. And they looked at their blood hormones and saw that... Where they had had previously high cortisol and estrogen and low progesterone in their blood the Antibiotic had reversed that pattern increased their progesterone lowered both their estrogen and cortisol and they figured out that the antibiotic had stopped a bacterial process that was blocking the liver's detoxifying action. When your thyroid is low, for example, the liver excretes estrogen into the gut trying to get rid of it. But a low thyroid person has sluggish digestion. And they leave itX That is why we need to give people a cold telling them to fast A and за And that will美國 soon And that excreted estrogen is reabsorbed from the gut back into the liver and creates stress hormones and accumulated high estrogen blocking progesterone production. And so the antibiotic was improving their intestinal health and therefore their hormonal health. I tested the idea of just eating a big carrot every day and had women with this pattern of high stress hormones and estrogen and low progesterone and within three days of a daily carrot salad they had experienced the same hormonal change that taking an antibiotic did. Three days of a carrot salad. And you like to do, let's see if I recall, a little bit of, is it coconut and apple cider vinegar? Yeah, but that's any vinegar and basically any fairly saturated oil, olive oil tastes better, but coconut oil is, the trouble on the salad is it solidifies. Yeah. And so I like a little mixture of. Olive and coconut oil. Do you think in general? Consuming coconut oil for most people Is just it could be a good thing for us. Is it a good food? Yeah, it's a good safe food. I found when I first experimented with it that My respiration rate increased it activated my thyroid function to have a tablespoon added to my supper and doing that regularly my weight stabilized ten pounds lower because it was increasing my metabolic rate just with a tablespoon a day. Oh yeah we've heard about that and and the thyroid and coconut. I think we've interviewed some people over the years that actually experienced that. That's curious. Let's see. So many emails here. This lady, what does Dr. Pete think of smoked oysters in a can, say in olive oil, are they safe when it comes to dioxins, content and other heavy metals? You have to balance how delicious and nutritious they are against the fact that things from the ocean are now generally more radioactive than ever, but eventually it's going to be in all of our food. I think having a can of them once a month you could consider to be safe, but if you ate a can every day, then you could. Worry about the heavy metals and radiation. So I wonder what about shrimp, oysters, and things like that from internal waters like the Gulf. I mean they had their issues with the oil some years ago, but do you think that's a better choice than the ocean? In terms of radiation, it is, but other pollutants... Yeah, who knows what's down there, right? Yeah, the Mississippi River is pouring out huge amounts of industrial pollution. That's tough. Here's a lady, Dr. Pete Foria, she says that she has type 2 diabetes and would like to control it without drugs. Is there anything that I could do to begin my journey in this? Yeah, checking your cortisol is one thing. The metabolic syndrome is very similar to what they call type 2 diabetes. It's a stress pattern that goes with weight gain, inability to oxidize glucose properly, so making sure that your thyroid hormone is good, your digestion is good, and definitely avoiding polyunsaturated fats, which are blockers of thyroid hormone secretion and action. Yeah, yeah, yeah, the old poofers, huh? Here's the lady, she's 70, and, um... My hair's still brown, but it keeps falling out, and hair that easily pulls out at the root, and she wants to know what could be the cause of that. What keeps falling out? Her hair keeps kind of coming out, yeah. Usually, low thyroid is behind that, but the thyroid is closely connected to the parathyroid. When you're low in thyroid, you tend to lose both sodium and calcium. Stress goes up, and you lose those minerals, and so you want to make sure that you're getting a high intake of calcium in your diet relative to phosphate. Because that will lower the parathyroid hormone and lower the mobilization of calcium from your bones, and when you're protecting your bones, you're also protecting your hair follicles. The parathyroid hormone is very closely connected to the metabolism of the hair follicle. The parathyroid inhibits energy production in mitochondria and when it does that in the hair follicle, the hair follicle just doesn't have enough energy to keep growing. Vitamin D and calcium and thyroid hormone are the things that will energize all of your cells including the hair follicle. Very interesting. Dr. Pete, stay right there. Please, we're going to do a quick little break here and continue. It'd be a great time for a little plug that just fits right in. We were going to do a spot. But we think that this is a wonderful form of calcium because it comes from oysters. Kind of like if you go through the Max Planck Institute idea that you don't want to do any kind of thing in your body unless it's from a living source. These oysters are actually living. They were before they busted them up. They're tiers of pearls. They're pearls. It's all made from pearls, this product. Nothing but pearls. And it's got a lot of calcium in there. Not all of it, but a lot of it. And we'll give you the dosage after you hear about it. Previously with Dr. Ruland Hsu about her product called Pearlseum. So let's talk about the teeth first. Explain to me what's going on because there's something magical when you dip your little toothbrush in water. Why do they look so sparkly and just, I don't know, something very energetically about the look of them. Yeah, it's very, very magical. So like a group of scientists in France discovered that when you put pearl next to the bones, the report will just leave everything as is. or skins or other connective tissues and they find it stimulates new growth of the bones and skins and connective tissues and also to make existing bones and the skins are more healthy and stronger. So brush your teeth with the pearl then your teeth will make your existing teeth stronger and also it will fill up you know teeth with the porcelain. And the pearl powder will stimulate the new bone growth and also make the existing teeth very strong. It's really a great product. You'll love it. Take it internally or on your teeth and you can click an order. See the ad right there. Pearlsium in a nice green container. Pearlsium on OneRadioNetwork.com. We're talking with Brandon Amalani about his great product, the BlueShield, and the BlueShield is the main product is a cube, and it doesn't block the EMFs as some people think, right Brandon? That's correct, it doesn't. It's really about the communication of the device and the body. And what we figured out is how to communicate with the body and amp it up. So it's affecting the cell voltage, it's affecting the intercellular communication, and the most important part is that it's getting the body to stop. fighting the EMF, which are repetitive signals in the environment. They're non-native, they're man-made, and the body raises white blood cell counts and attacks it like it's a virus, essentially. That's interesting. That's very different technology from most units around. Oh yeah, absolutely. This uses multiple scalar outputs, and it's really innovative, the scalar realm, because... it's using crystal photonics or light to basically do this digital signaling that creates these longitudinal waves that move through time-space and affect the subatomic structures between atoms. So, as it moves and passes through your body, it's literally affecting the mental, emotional, physical, and spiritual components of what we're made up of. Well, as you can hear, this is interesting technology, very different, working on the cells in the body. The Blue Shield, it's on our website, front page, use promo code ONERADIO, little cube, take care of the whole house. They also have a little personal guy you can put in your pocket or purse. Blue Shield, promo code ONERADIO, oneradionetwork.com Yeah, that's right, and the little personal guy is kind of fun. It's just a little small guy, and you can carry that around, and if you're getting blasted by cell phone towers and stuff when you go into the city... If you're fortunate enough to live outside and all that, it's kind of a nice thing. Quick little plug here for Seth Rival. It has two great products, colostrum and the digestive bitters on sale right now. It's a great sale. Check it out. If you've not tried the colostrum, we think that you'll really like this one. It's been around forever. It's one of the flagship products of Daniel. And if you use Healthy Gut as the promo code, then they also have the digestive bitters on sale. Healthy Gut, and that's the promo code for Seth Rival Links. OneRadioNetwork.com. The sale going on right now. OneRadioNetwork.com. And we are talking with Dr. Ray Pete who is kind enough to come here once a month and talk to us and see what's going on. Were you exposed to the smoke and all that? Now you live up north, way up northwest, right? Yeah, for a couple of weeks. We didn't go outside. The sun looked like a maraschino cherry. The smoke was so thick. My goodness, my goodness. Has it pretty much, have they got these under control now? Yeah, the rain came about a week ago and seems to have put out the fires and the air is clean. This may be above your pay grade, but this idea that these forests can be managed by getting rid of the undergrowth, President Trump was arguing for it a long time ago. Is that viable, do you think? Is that one of the ways to keep these things from burning, getting rid of this stuff? That idea came in about a week ago. 45 or 50 years ago, they said that the Indians used to manage the forest that way, burning the undergrowth. But by the time... In these recent decades, by the time they decided to try that autonomous regulation, the forests had been so devastated, they had dried out, and the let it burn philosophy was put in. Really, as a ploy to get at the remaining old-growth forests. Supposedly, letting it burn would clean out the undergrowth the way it used to a thousand years ago, but the forests aren't the way they used to be, and when you let them burn, they go wild and destroy the old trees instead of burning the undergrowth. The stuff has accumulated to the point that the whole thing is destroyed, and when the government set aside these... wilderness areas of untouched old-growth trees, the lumber companies wanted access to them, so they passed the salvage laws that if there was a fire, they could then go in and log even the undamaged trees in an area where a burn had caused some damage. Functionally, it was a way for the lumber companies to get at the set-aside old-growth forests. The number of forest fires beginning in the old-growth areas suddenly expanded. A great increase of fire beginning as soon as the... salvage law was passed, strongly suggesting arson to get at the trees by starting a fire. Wow, man. Interesting. Elizabeth says she's on YouTube watching. Ever since lockdowns, many more people are experiencing panic attacks and vertigo. Can Dr. Pete explain why this could be? Yeah, my latest newsletter was sort of stimulated by that question of a rise in the … The inefficient metabolism of glucose producing lactic acid is associated with the panic attack. If you give intravenous lactic acid, for example, especially if a person is susceptible to the panic attacks, they will trigger the attack. The healthier person... doesn't necessarily experience a panic attack, but it's the very powerful trigger. And anxiety increases as your thyroid function goes down, and as your thyroid function goes down, your tendency to produce lactic acid instead of carbon dioxide increases. Thyroid is needed to oxidize glucose all the way to carbon dioxide, and the carbon dioxide suppresses the excitatory nerves and blocks the formation of free lactic acid. So, thyroid improves your metabolic efficiency and prevents these attacks of lactic acid. Anxiety and hyperventilation, if a person is at all susceptible to a panic attack, if you have them breathe, hyperventilate, breathe as fast as they can for a minute or two, that will usually trigger a tremendous increase in lactic acid and panic attack, simply because at the. Hyper ventilating makes you lose your carbon dioxide and in the loss of the carbon dioxide you produce too much lactic acid and the excitatory processes glutamatergic stimulation basic excitatory process in the brain takes over in the absence of. Carbon dioxide so that that idea when we breathe less or do more than buteco So we're not getting rid of the carbon dioxide Yeah, saving the car that helps that helps that helps when we feel anxious Yeah, current carbon dioxide has Sedative or even anesthetic effect when you get very large amounts of it. Mm-hmm Matt is watching the show on on YouTube hi Matt does high dose dosing bone broth have benefits like above 50 ounces a day when people talk about bone broth sometimes they are thinking of long like thigh bones and and shin bones of a beef or lamb and that those are full of marrow which is full of iron and if you boil a bone containing marrow for a long time the iron attacks the fats and creates a bad taste and toxins so I don't think it's a good idea at all to make soup from the long bones but the knobby ends of the bones where the cartilage at the surface of the joint and the ligaments that hold the joints together and the tendons where the muscles are attached those are the good material for making stock and the proper bone broth should be from the knobby cartilage and collagen rich tissues and the broth when you cool it should be rubbery. You should be able to bounce your broth when it's cold. Yeah, very good. So this idea, it's curious that iron is in these long bones. I don't know if places you buy the bones, they may chop up those bones and put them in there, so I guess you got to be careful of what you're doing. So just speaking of iron in general, there are people that advocate us giving blood every two or three times a year to lower our iron levels. Do you think that's valuable, interesting? Yeah, the studies that have been done of regular blood donors, they are much healthier than the average population. Lower in the iron level? I think that's a big part of it, but they're also getting rid of some of the stress-induced exosomes. There have been some very good studies in which you separate the clear part of the blood plasma, and you're concentrating the platelets, and along with the platelets, the usually invisible exosome fraction. You need an electron microscope to see them. When you take the plasma from an old animal and put it in a young animal, it induces aging. And if you reverse the process, put young plasma into an old animal, you delay aging. So these exosome fractions also contain stress signals and aging degenerative signals. Or reparative, restorative signals depending on the source, the state of the animal donating the material. So if you're experiencing stress and donating blood, you're getting rid of some of these signals of stress and aging. Do we give it to the people they give the blood to? Yeah, you're giving them your agen stress. All right. It's always something, eh? John writes in on YouTube, you have mentioned that pregnant alone is found in organ meats. How much pregnant alone in milligrams would be like for a typical serving of organ meat that humans consume as foods such as beef liver or the like? Do we know? Adrenal glands and gonads are the only sources that have a medically important quantity of it. Every cell has some, but the adrenals are very rich in it, several milligrams per gland. So that's been the basis for an adrenal extract or just recommending eating adrenal glands or gonads because of the precursor steering which is there for making. The potentially harmful cortisol and estrogen, the premature precursor material is beneficial but the end hormone can be disruptive. Interesting. Any chance Dr. P could explain how many times a week... and for how long should we use, could we use progesterone for male pattern hair loss? Oh, I've known people who stopped and reversed it by a daily application of oily progesterone to the scalp. It's messy and unpleasant, but it can... change the course of the hair loss, especially if you back it up with a high calcium diet and thyroid as needed. A lot of men are now supplementing 5 to 10 milligrams when they're in middle age. They find that by limiting... their pituitary stress signals that they're lowering their body estrogen and that's having a rejuvenating effect on their tissue. They even feel like they're having more testosterone because they aren't wasting and turning it to estrogen. Interesting. So the one you like is that... what is it called? Progeste? Progeste? No? Yeah. The keynote trend progeste complex. Yeah, complex. Now I got some of that, but they were talking about drops, but... You know, if you put it in the fridge, you can't even get the stuff out like a... And then I kept it on the counter. You can't really do a drop. It just kind of comes out and... So, I mean, I guess you just do a little bit of it. Don't worry. Yeah, you just don't want to let it stand in the sunlight because sunlight degrades the vitamin E. But the progesterone is safe at room temperature indefinitely. Okay, but it's not real critical exactly how much you get in there, because... No. If you took a half a teaspoon at one dose, it might make you drunk for a while. We're pretty drunk anyway, Doug. Another emailer off on YouTube wants to know, well, what would one do after finding a lump on one of my testicles? Is that good? It is. If it's in the testicle, that definitely is evidence that you should have examined a possible testicular cancer, but it should include an examination of your pituitary hormones, because if you, for example, remove one testicle, your pituitary becomes overactive, and that will increase the risk of cancer developing by overstimulating it. The same with adrenal glands or the thyroid, increased pituitary activity is a major driver of......tissue stress and cancerization. So making sure that your pituitary is not overactive is something that should go along with examining whether it's cancerous. Good job. Richard is in Denmark. Ever been to Denmark, Dr. P? Yes, went through it. Yeah. Denmark. And he says, could you please, Dr. P, what to do with pain related to, I'm going to try this one, Glyospergenoneuralgia. Am I saying that? Glyospergenoneuralgia. And it seems to get worse when lying down. What is that? Glyospergenoneuralgia. What was the first? G-l-o-s-s-o-p-h-a-r-y-n-g-e-a-l. Like the pharynx. That would be the throat. The throat, right. Yeah. It could be related to the reflux problem. When you lie down, your sympathetic nervous system decreases and your parasympathetic activity increases and that affects your swallowing and intestinal peristalsis. And especially if you're hypothyroid, you can have exaggerated parasympathetic action and that can lead to even reverse peristalsis. And spasms of the various sphincters of the esophagus and I assume it would be connected to this throat areas pain and spasms. Naomi is on YouTube watching. Hi Naomi. What does high albumin in a blood test mean? High albumin. Usually it's a sign of dehydration. You should check everything else. For example, the red blood cell count is usually increased. Exercising, for example, if you haven't had anything to drink for a long time and walked for half an hour in warm weather before having the blood drawn, your blood would be a little drier, and that would make your red cell count and your albumin increase. But ordinarily, it's good to have. What's dangerous is when it gets below 4 or 40, however the scale is. Gotcha. Patrick Timpone, along with Dr. Ray Peet. Doc, we'd like to stick around just a few more minutes, if you don't mind. We got started late, and do a couple of more. Emails that people have some good questions. I just want to give a quick plug here. I won't take a long time for this hydrogen machine. I went to a body worker that I've been going to for several years. Very good. He knows my body, and he remembers. He said, well, the last time this wasn't here. I mean, this guy is really on it. And I went last week, and I hadn't been able to go for about six months because they had all kinds of weird things going on with the corona thing, and I didn't want to wear a mask and all that, so it was like six months. So I went to him last week, a 90-minute session, and he, two or three different times during the session, he said, I've never felt your body so hydrated as you are today. And he's, I've known this guy for two or three years. Never, he said. What are you doing? So the only thing I know that I'm doing very differently is I'm drinking the hydrogen-rich water from this machine, the aquacare machine, and also breathing the gas. George says that this helps with hydration, dehydration, dehydrogen. You know, there's science that shows that as well. You can go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.com and look at all the huge amount of peer-reviewed studies that talk about hydrogen. And this is Brown's gas, so you know, this may do the, help you with hydrating as well. He, you know, he said it about three times. I mean, he just couldn't believe it, how my whole, everything, he said my whole body was never seen it this hydrated, well hydrated. Pretty cool. Drinking the water and breathing the gas. It's anecdotal, but could be something there for you that's interesting. So that's hydrogen. You can click an order, use the promo code ONERADIO, oneradionetwork.com, the Aquacare Hydrogen Brown's gas machine on our website. We are listener-supported, one radio network. We're with Dr. Ray Peat. This may be above your, or not in your, Bayley Wick doc, but we'll give it a shot. I have a nine-year-old dog that keeps getting these little lipomas, little fatty deposits. It's not very big, but there's a few on her body. The vet says there's nothing to worry about. Do you have an opinion about these? Do you know about what could be lipomas in animals and what could be causing them? I think it's the same as in humans, a slight hormone imbalance and parathyroid hormone and thyroid hormone are the main things behind the problem of collecting fat in irritated areas especially. So checking... the amount of calcium in the diet relative to phosphate. It should be a fairly high amount of calcium, not too much phosphate. And with the dog that means including maybe some cottage cheese or milk in the diet. We'll give them more calcium. So people are on, most people that are really into their dogs, they're on a more meat-based diet because they're carnivores. But that has a lot of phosphate. Yeah, and carnivores always would eat some of the small bones. Some people eating chickens, for example, like to eat the ribs and other small bones. If you have good teeth, and carnivores traditionally have eaten a lot of the bones. So this person could try a personal product, which is pearls, or bones, more bones, and also cottage cheese or cream or something. Cream isn't such a good source of calcium. But milk is. Yeah, oyster shells and egg shells are extremely good sources of extra calcium, but people fear giving their dogs bones. As long as they're raw, that's fine, right? Yeah, a dog with good teeth can crunch the bones up and get their calcium from bones. Sure, sure. So the calcium phosphorous could be an antagonist to the thyroid, which could straighten out with more calcium, possibly? Yeah, having an excess of calcium and a slight excess even of sodium goes together with guaranteeing that your cell energy is going to be supported and close to a maximum. It's a deficiency of both sodium and calcium that leads to a rise in stress hormones and parathyroid hormone and suppression of the thyroid. And that could induce this person's dog to form these little lumps. Yeah, too much phosphate in the diet has an irritating effect that I think contributes to little tumor-like developments that can be fatty. Fibrous and fatty tumors develop under... irritants. So in nature, in wolves and such, excuse me, then that would balance out by eating more bones, right? Yeah, bones are good if you don't specialize in aged animals. Some of the bone meal supplements decades ago were made from aged animals that were at the end of their lifespan, so their bones were... loaded up on heavy metals, very high in iron, in lead, lead and other toxic heavy metals. So if they're made from the regular meat animals, then the bones are safe. Jeremy said I began taking 60 grains of thyroid, the T3 and the T4. My body temperature was low, I'm paraphrasing, kind of long, and it was at 97, like 97.5, and it just kind of stays there. And then I increased, as Dr. Pete recommended, maybe after a week or two, I went to 120 grains, and my pulse rate increased from 60 to 75, but my body temperature didn't move at all. Am I on the right track? Should I keep going, do you think, with what I'm doing, writes Jeremy. Depends on what kind of thyroid it is. You want to make sure if it's a glandular product, you might try a different product, because every source, they are no longer standardizing the process of manufacturing it, and some of them are apparently not as well selected purified glandular tissue, so the potency can vary. Broda Barnes sometimes would prescribe as much as five grains, or 300 milligrams. The standard tablets range from as small as a fourth of a grain, 15 milligrams, up to the 300 milligram five grain tablets. And the veterinarians said that cocker spaniels typically needed one of the five grain tablets, because they have such a tendency to hypothyroidism. But I've only seen a few people, maybe five or ten percent of the people on a thyroid supplement who needed as much as five grains a day. So how would, are there actually products out there that we know for thyroid people that are using the, what did you say, the glandular, are there products that they can get through their doctor? Yeah, the Armour product has been passed through several different companies and its quality has changed over the last 30 years, but I think they're now making a moderately well standardized product, but I still use Xenoplus as a reliable dose consistent product. And the Xenoplus from Mexico, that gets you the T3 and the T4, right? And you start the same way. Did you do the same grams gross? Yeah, the tablet contains 120 micrograms of T4 and 30 micrograms of T3. In the old conversion, that would be two and a half grains, roughly, equivalent. And do you remember, recall the name of the place that you gave us in Mexico that might be the place to get this Xenoplus? Yeah, Formasius Del Nino dot MX. Formasio Del Nino dot MX, and pretty reliable. You see, so the Xenoplus then gives you the T3 and the T4 in a glandular, right? No, it's based on the glandular, but it's a synthetic equivalent. The Armour Company created the first balanced synthetic, and they called it Thyrolar. And other companies, especially the one that makes Xenoplus, simply imitated one of the Thyrolar tablets. But now they only have the one potency, so you generally want to start with a fourth of a tablet, because it's a fairly high potency tablet. So you don't have a problem then with the Xenoplus from Mexico, even though it's synthetic, it works? Yeah, it's based on the content of the original Armour product. So the body doesn't kind of know the difference? No, they're chemically the same. Interesting. Why does Dr. P. think that there's so many alternative health experts that are so strongly advocating fish oil and omega-3 supplementation? That's an interesting question. There's a lot of them, right, out there? Oh, yeah. It's all advertising-based. Really? It used to be the seed oils that were recommended by alternative health people and nutritionists. When starting in the 1950s, they had their cotton seed oil and safflower seed oil and soy oil. The market for paints, varnishes, and plastics made from these seed oils disappeared when petroleum chemists learned how to make them very cheaply from petroleum. So the industry producing those oils needed a new market, and so they decided to call them essential fatty acids. If they're essential, then the reasoning was more of them must be good, and so they sold them on the basis that they were found to lower blood cholesterol. What they were doing was injuring the tissues, causing cholesterol to build up in your liver and other tissues, so the blood level of cholesterol went down. So the essential fatty acids for about 30 years were the alternative and standard medical remedy for circulatory disease, even though scientifically these polyunsaturated fats are very closely connected to inflammation of the arteries and degeneration of the tissues. and suppression of thyroid function and is that a big study by the veterans administration found that not only did these essential fatty acids fail to solve heart disease mortality, they increased it but at the same time they caused a several fold increase in cancer mortality that was very bad for the health promoting advertising industry. And so they decided if the essential fatty acids are toxic, we have to come up with something else. Oh yeah, it's the N-3 essential fatty acids that are really essential. And so they shifted over to N-3. A different kind of polyunsaturated fat and the science, mink breeders, for example, knew for decades that if they fed them fish, they died of yellow fat disease and other degenerative conditions. So the toxicity of the fish oil was known for just about as long as __________. Toxicity of the soy oil category, but it takes about 50 years for science to overcome advertising and we're just now reaching the point where __________. as people are starting to question the safety of the fish oils. But you know the proponents of it they they argue that well they used to use cod liver oil a couple hundred years ago and it was fine and every it helped people. Is there any evidence to that cod liver oil being beneficial? Oh sure, vitamin D and A and the liver oil those are so protective that in spite of the fairly large amount of polyunsaturated fats that went along with it, making sure that your vitamin D and A are adequate. Those are so important for the health that you can somewhat neglect the toxic fish oils that are associated with them. I see. But that's in a cod liver, right? A good cod liver oil, not just what they call fish oil difference, right? Yeah, the liver is very high in the protective vitamins and not so high in the PUFA as in the plain fish oil. So possibly these cod liver oil from a good source could be used for healing if somebody is low on A or something and not necessarily get you yellow fat disease 30 years later? Probably not. A tablespoon per day wouldn't reach the very acute kind of degenerative processes that eating fatty fish every day can do. Yeah. Is there a big difference before we go of the kinds of fish we get at the fish counter? You know, you have so many different choices. You know, salmon, cod, oysters. Any kind of ideas there from you as far as our best choices? Yeah, you want to avoid the very big fish that are old, because over years of eating little fish, they accumulate more and more. Toxic heavy metals, so tuna and orange roughy, for example, are usually fairly old and big. And so moderate-sized fish like sole and cod, they are lower in the heavy metals, and they also are relatively low in polyunsaturated fats. So I avoid eating very often salmon or herring or the fatty fish. Do you think fish with all the challenges in the water, potential mercury, Dr. Pete, are worth eating? Do they help us to stay healthy, do you think? Some kind of seafood, about once a week, will provide selenium. That's one of the very important things that you always get from seafood. So it could be shrimp or oysters or cod or sole or any kind of marine food will give you a little bit of copper and other trace minerals and iodide, along with the essential selenium, which can be deficient in land-grown food. Well, Dr. Pete, thanks for sticking around a little bit longer today. We still never get through all of them, but we do what we can. Appreciate your time. You stay well up there. And visit Dr. Pete at RayPete.com. You can try his newsletter. It's RayPete's Plural Newsletter at gmail.com. It comes out every couple of months for a few bucks and to support him and stuff. And Dr. Pete, thanks a lot. We appreciate your work and let us know if there's anything we can do to help you. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. Bye-bye. Bye. Dr. Ray Pete, Patrick Timpone, It's One Radio Network.com. So, so much fun talking to him. Boy, he gets a little geeky and it's great. You actually understand some, you know, it's like, whoa, how you connect all the dots. But it's really, really fun to have him on. We do the best we can with the questions. I hope we were able to get to yours. I'm going to go through and get all the ones that we still have in the hopper. So, for the next, for his November show, we're going to start with some of the older ones. Sorry if we can't get to them all. Sometimes it's just tough to kind of figure it out, you know, get them all in. But we do what we can. Okay, we are live here Monday. And tomorrow we're going to talk with Gerald Pollack and also, who else are we talking to tomorrow? Oh, a fellow about the deep state, Whitehead, Mr. Whitehead. And we're going to do a couple of other things this week too. So stay tuned, stay in touch with us, let us know if we can help. Two ways to know these kind of great interviews that are going to be coming your way on the front page of One Radio Network. One is sign up for a newsletter. We're right at the top of the front page and a couple times a week you'll just get a little email in your inbox and tell you who we're going to have on. Also, you know, keep in touch with us on Facebook because we stream these shows right there as well. I know there's a way to notify you when we put on a stream, but I haven't quite figured that out. If anybody knows how to do that, let me know. And then on UB2B, if you go to our YouTube channel, and you can get there by clicking on YouTube on the top right of One Radio Network, or just put in YouTube Patrick Timpone, click on the subscribe button, and then there's a little bell right to the right of the subscribe button. Click on that baby, and every time we do a stream like this one, whether it's recorded or live, they call it live stream. That way, you'll get a notification saying, hey, we got a new one that's put up there, so that's a nice way to do that. Do the little bell thing on the right, otherwise the notification thing doesn't work. Okay, thank you for your ongoing support. I appreciate you trusting some of these products that we talk about. And if I have, if there's any way I can help you with these or anything else, my email. It won't go far from the email, unfortunately, but unfortunately, it's Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Okay, kids, I love you all very much. May the blessings be, and we'll see you real soon. Stay tuned. Stay in touch. We are listener-supported. One radio network.