 Need one more reason why your Safeway store is just better? How about free Cuisinart Classic Cutlery or Elite Flatware? That's right! For every $10 you spend, earn a free stamp saver you can redeem for Cuisinart items. Once you've collected between 30 and 60 stamps, you can start shopping for a variety of Cuisinart Cutlery or Flatware, available at the in-store display. Present your items and stamp saver at checkout. It's simple. Spend $10, get your free stamp saver, start collecting. Safeway. It's just better. You're listening to Holistic Living brought to you by EastWest Healing and Performance. And now, here are your hosts, Josh and Jeannie Rubin. What up, everyone? This is Josh and Jeannie Rubin. I think Jeannie's on the other line right now. Are you there, Jeannie? I'm here. Can you hear me? Already. We can hear you. In solistic living and from Wellness Weight Loss Pain Elimination in relaxation. But of course, this year we've been having Ray Pete on every month. Love to say thank you to him, of course, and keep growing on that. And I guess before we introduce Ray and get him on the line. We wanted to say a couple things about ourselves and about Ray and this is 100% from our mouth and has nothing to do with Ray said or anything because he's a super humble guy and he's really said nothing but answer our questions and say yes to doing the shows. First thing is check out our website at eastwesthealing.com. Tons of free resources. It's a resource site but we do work with clients nutritionally all over the world as far away as Switzerland and Israel using the phone to help people. With thyroid problems, GI problems, hormonal imbalances, adrenal vein issues, fatigue, you name it. So give us a call to set up your consultation. You can get all that information on our site. As well, keep in tune with our website. It will be changing dramatically in the next three plus months in regards to the look of it, the layout, what's on it, store, resources, you name it. It's going to be fresh and new. We're really excited about it. With maybe some cheap downloadable videos to your desktop. Of course, you have to pay for it, but they'll be very inexpensive and educational at the same time. Enough about us. Oh, one more thing. Look us up on Facebook, Josh Rubin, Jeannie Rubin, YouTube, blog, blog talk, check it out. The reason for us really doing this, and Jeannie can chime in, is first of all, we're human and we're American, so we bastardize everything. I don't care who you are, we bastardize it. What you have to understand is, from my perspective, and this is just my... perception, and maybe Jeanne wants to add something, Ray's approach is not an approach. It's a philosophy. It's a science. It's a science on how the body works, how its biochemistry works, its biology works, its physiology works, everything. It's not about an outside-in type of diet, like paleo-ethic dieting, and all these different diets out there, and vegetarianism. It's really based on the science of how the body works, and unfortunately... You can't argue against that. Now, you can, of course, because it can create fear. It can create... fear. But at the same time, our goal is to educate people. It's not to create conflict on Facebook. It's not to create conflict on the show. We want to share what we're learning, and that's really the bottom line. So, you know, if you get pissed, you get two options. Shut us off and go somewhere else, or ease into it and learn just like we did. We're not saying we're know-it-alls. We just want to share the stuff, and that's the bottom line. Second thing, it's a process. His articles are technical. It's like finding Waldo and piecing things together. And don't bastardize it and think just because you eat gelatin, carrots, and broth that you're going to become healthy and lose weight and help you thyroid, or just because you read an article that you know exactly what you're doing. We're always learning and realize that you might need to work with a practitioner, or consult with someone in the industry that has studied his stuff, or... you know, has worked with him directly for, you know, 10, 15, 20 years, because there are people out there besides us, so... just realize that. And the third thing is, I know that we've been getting a lot more emails and phone calls. So I'm making a huge assumption that Ray has. Now, Ray's a humble person. From chatting with him, that's what I feel, not on the show, just off the show. If you send him an email with 50 questions, he'll probably answer it. And never ask for money. Now, he doesn't seem like a guy that's attached to the dollar, but at the same time, he does research. Without his research, we wouldn't have this great information. So what I'm asking people, this has nothing to do with what he brought up, he's never even brought this up. What I'm asking people is, if you are emailing him, or you email him on a regular basis, that out of the kindness of your heart, you send him a check for a dollar. You send him a check for $5, $100, whatever you feel. It's worth it. That's really all we're asking. And you can do it anonymously. It's up to you. So that's really all I got to say about that. I just think it will be a kind thing to do since he takes time out of his day once a month to really educate us for free. And he's answering all these emails. So that's really all I ask. Today we're talking about estrogen versus progesterone. Jeannie, you still there? Yes, I am. I don't think she's there. I don't hear her. You can go to Rapeat's site, r-a-y-p-e-a-t.com. He's got tons of articles, he's got books, a lot of great information. Of course, a little technical, but you know, you've got to work for it. A little bit about Ray, he's got a PhD in biology from the University of Oregon, and he specializes in physiology. You've got to love it. He's taught at many different schools, and you can check that out on your site. From schools in Mexico, the U.S., Oregon, naturopathic schools. He also does private consulting in regards to nutrition counseling. He mainly started his work with progesterone and related hormones back in 1968, so he's got tons of applicable knowledge in this realm. That's what we're talking about today. He's done many papers on physiology and chemistry and physics, done dissertations. Outlining progesterone and other hormones, closely related to it, and the list goes on and on and on. Of course, a lot of people know by now that he's really big into hormones and regulating the thyroid and using foods that are beneficial to the body based on our physiology. So, if you want to learn more about him, check out his website, r-a-y-p-e-a-t.com. Tons of articles and books. Let me grab Jeannie and, um... Ray, because I think they're on the other line, just give me a second, we've still got to, um... Are you there Jeannie, Ray? Yes, I'm here. All right, we can hear you now. Welcome. How are we doing, Ray? Oh, very good. Thank you. Great. Thanks for coming back on. I know everyone's excited. We've got, you know, tons and tons of listeners. So, um, let's get to it. We're going to be talking about estrogen and progesterone today, which, of course, is more hormones, and we'll kind of intertwine this all together. It's hard to get specific, but, um, I guess it seems like you've been studying this for, you know, back since the 1960s. Um, I guess our first question is, what sparked your interest in the whole estrogen, progesterone, um, et cetera, I guess, hormonal thing? You know, because you have lots of articles in a lot of your books. Um, correlated with that, what kind of got you to go down that avenue? Um, it really started just as a little kid growing up and noticing things. Whenever I would see a medical textbook, I would read that. They were generally more interesting than novels. And when I worked in the woods, one of the old timers pointed out that when they wanted a pine tree to bear, a pine tree to bear. seeds, they would chop it with an axe, and that made it bear fruit. And I heard stories about how stress would bring on puberty prematurely. And those ideas started blending with what I was hearing and seeing from, like, a woman in the 50s who took a shot of estrogen. She immediately came down with rheumatoid arthritis, which got worse with each injection and completely cleared up when she stopped using it. And a classmate's mother had a shot of estrogen for menopause and within 30 minutes was psychotic and was committed to the state institution for several months. And the daughter, the classmate, began using... contraceptives shortly after that, and died of a stroke. And other young women who were using those first very high estrogen contraceptives were being disabled by hemorrhaging and such. And so it was in the culture by the time I decided to go to graduate school in biology, but my intention was to study......brain biology, nerve biology, and that grew out of my interest in psychology and linguistics, but it turned out that the real science was being done in the endocrinology department rather than in the very ideological nerve biology area. The fact that I had moved from Mexico to Oregon about the time I started graduate school, I started noticing my own health was changing with the dark, rainy winters in Oregon, and I started hearing stories from girls who came to go to graduate school and would get a cheap basement apartment and would spend all winter with PMS. And so that, even though I hadn't yet started studying endocrinology, I was seeing more things that were coalescing into the interactions of the environment with the hormones. And I had been reading, I taught at school. I was assigned a course in physics for biology majors. And in reading widely to know how to orient that, I ran across Hans Selye's early work. And in the 40s, he had already very well characterized the functions of all of the steroid hormones. He wrote a thing called the Encyclopedia of. And he demonstrated that a large dose of estrogen created a shock condition that had all of the features of shock. And progesterone imitated all of the features of the stress-protecting hormones so that animals didn't need their adrenal glands. If they had a steady supply of progesterone or if they were pregnant. So the first reaction from a big dose of estrogen was known to be shock-like. And so when I shifted over in graduate school to the endocrine department, my project was reproductive aging just because that happened to be what the university... had in the field of endocrine research and my thesis advisor had demonstrated that estrogen causes miscarriage basically infertility but if you give the right dose at any stage of pregnancy it will cause abortion and he had demonstrated that vitamin E in large doses would delay age related infertility and my project was studying the oxidative changes in the uterus that occurred during aging and I found that the changes of the uterus with aging were the same as those produced by estrogen treatment. But also by a deficiency of vitamin E and also by radiation treatment. And I started seeing how relevant Hans Selye's work was showing the stress shock imitating effect of estrogen. And that, in fact, any kind of shock or stress. Has estrogenic effects, so you can make an animal go into estrus by irradiating it. Not just its head or ovaries, but any part of the body something is produced that has an estrogenic effect. If you put a plastic bag over a rat's head, it goes into estrus. Suffocation activates the so-called... estrogen receptors, and will actually increase the production of estrogen and the sensitivity to estrogen, and even without estrogen, those stress situations will imitate the functions of estrogen. Interesting. You know, a lot of people probably haven't, some people haven't read about Hanthelia. I went back in the day that kind of, I would say, if I could be incorrect or correct, coined the term stress and developed the general adaptation syndrome. Now, when we talk about estrogen, I guess we'll get into the whole radiation thing and we can talk about where it comes from, but, you know, I guess I want your take on this because so many people, because of synthetic estrogens and our environment with estrogens and the stress reaction with estrogen. I think a lot of people make the misconception that it's essentially bad and correct me if I'm wrong, I mean essentially, you know, it's really not a female hormone because men and women both have it, correct? But also, we actually need it to survive. It's a problem when it becomes more of an excess that it's a problem. Yeah, it's really the essential masculinizing hormone. The females can have it. at the crucial developmental stage, but they have a lot of a protein called alpha-fetoprotein that inactivates estrogen. So at that stage estrogen will create a male functioning organism while it won't affect the healthy female fetus or infant. Because the female is simply protected against estrogen by that special protein. So it's basic early function is as a masculine hormone. And the estrogen industry really is where the idea came from that it's a female hormone. It was identified in the ovary. But the main ovarian hormone, which is the feminizing hormone, is progesterone. And men have quite a bit of progesterone, but women, probably the reason women live longer than men is that they are able to produce much more progesterone than men, since men produce it mainly in their adrenal glands. So, I think for everyone listening, that's super important to hear that, you know, you know, in rate, correct me if I'm wrong, but, you know, when it comes to estrogen progesterone, there's no such thing as a male hormone or female hormone because we both have them. It's how they're labeled based on maybe whoever, the research, whoever is doing them. And they both play a huge role in how our physiology works, how our hormonal system works. So, it's really not that we, you know. Men have this and women have that. We both have them. And we actually need them as one becomes very deficient or excessive in a sense that it creates an imbalance. So, I think that's an important part. And remember that men and women produce them. It's not just a female thing. Yeah, it's an excitatory transmitter. And its effect in females... The main effects are to cause the pituitary to produce prolactin, to cause the breasts to develop, produce more tubules and keep growing, where progesterone stops the growth and differentiates them, and to cause the uterus to expand greatly in preparation for pregnancy. But those effects, there's a great surge of estrogen right around the time of ovulation that lasts for about 12 hours. And that releases histamine in many tissues that activates a great surge of cell division. Both histamine and serotonin are released by estrogen. And pregnancy... requires that only in the sense that the uterus is activated and made sensitive to the contact of the fertilized ovum. And that preparatory activation is what estrogen is needed for. You can substitute many other irritants. You can cause implantation to happen just... with histamine in the absence of estrogen. So estrogen isn't really essential for reproduction by the female in that sense that you can substitute other things. So in regards to estrogen and progesterone, you could have already mentioned this, but beside the menstrual cycle and fertility, you know, we talk about these hormones and I know you talk about... estrogen being excitatory and I do want to talk about histamine and prolactin and all these other hormones because I think it's important for people to understand them as well as serotonin, which is your newest newsletter, which is fabulous, by the way, but what other role do these things play in our lives beside the menstrual cycle, I should say, women's menstrual cycle? I mean, you talk about how estrogen regulates blood sugar, right? You Excites, if you have too much of it, it will cause insulin to be over secreted and can lower blood sugar that way, but even though it doesn't need an estrogen receptor to activate a cell, just about every cell in the body contains estrogen receptors and they tend to be increased by stress. Thank you. But there are other hormones that can imitate estrogen's excitatory effects on the uterus and breast. For example, the pituitary is the source of many excitatory hormones and so in great stress, you get estrogenic influences from even the ACTH prolactin. FSH and so on. In the pituitary, these act on many tissues in the same way that estrogen does. The thyroid-stimulating hormone itself has some factors, some effects very similar to estrogen's. Right. So I guess, I'm sorry, go ahead. No, go ahead. I was going to say go a little bit off topic and we can come back. You're talking about estrogen and progesterone you know there's so many people getting tested for these and now there's so many new ways because you hear all these people saying well you know blood is inaccurate because in in in blood you know estrogen and progesterone are bound to proteins like albumin and sex hormone binding globulin but in saliva they're not so saliva is more accurate now you know I go back and forth I keep bouncing back and forth and then I know there's a lot of people out there that don't know what to do and it's hard because you know you see these people that are suffering they go to their doctor they do a blood lab everything's fine and then they go to a saliva lab with someone and they see that you know something's deficient like progesterone and they have their estrogen dominant you know can you give us your kind of your your philosophy our thoughts on a which which when you feel is a little more accurate and why we see this why we see this difference one of the problems with lab tests is that each lab tends to have its own standard and there are practically no studies in which healthy people have been sought out for blood tests to establish the normal they usually use people who were sick with something else to establish the normal for a given blood test result so it's it's really kind of irrational to pay much attention to the what they call normal unless you have someone really healthy that you want to consider as as your model but the idea of protein bound hormones versus free hormones if you try to dissolve estrogen or progesterone especially in water. You can hardly dissolve progesterone in oil. It's very hard to dissolve. It does bind nicely to albumin and several other kinds of protein. But one of the assumptions is that what you're measuring in the saliva is free in some sense, but they simply are not is significantly soluble in water. So what is it bound to when you're measuring it? The tests done in the lab that are called free progesterone or free estrogen are really done by dialysis, which means that the hormone which is bound to a protein is able to pass through a membrane which is bound to a membrane. They're very live. You can see how fresh these mushrooms are because these usually a protein membrane and is picked up on the other side by something which also is not in the watery phase, an antibody, for example, or other protein. So freedom is purely a metaphysical idea. Everything is moving along in, on the microscopic level, a solid phase. There's no real meaning to, outside of the laboratory, this distinction. So the saliva, if the hormones are associated with something, but it just isn't well defined what they're associated with. And several people have done tests. They've attached the hormone covalently to albumin. So that it can't possibly get loose. So it's absolutely a protein-bound hormone. And they find that it works. It goes right into the cell. Albumin has no trouble getting into the cytoplasm, into the mitochondrion, into the nucleus, taking its hormone with it. And they've even attached hormones to the surface of red blood cells. That way they can tell whether the cell is sensing it at the surface or whether it has to travel into the cell on its carrier protein. But the whole idea that a hormone has to be free from a protein to get into the cell derives from the idea that there's a barrier at the surface of the cell. It's really a distinction between... a proteinaceous oil-loving system which is the cell and the relatively wetter, less oil-loving external fluids and bloodstream. So, I guess, if I heard you correctly and I could be wrong, that when it comes to a lab, it's really... it's not that one or the other is better, but, well... It's more accurate, but in your eyes, the blood test would be more accurate when it comes to the hormones? Yeah, there's a very good base of information, even though their definition of what might be normal can be hard to interpret, but still you have a big base of information about how the measurements are made. And how people... vary tremendously in the amount of saliva they produce and even in the chemical composition and protein content of the saliva. Depending on what's causing you to salivate, the protein content of the saliva is variable and also the hormone content. Okay, so it's really that blood tests are accurate. The problem is we have so many norms, so the problem is people might... you know, have all the symptomatology, but whoever they do the lab with, they're coming back within the norms. So they're being seen as, okay, the problem is... What the norms are based off of. When you look at the functional outcomes of manipulating the steroids as they've done in vitro fertilization and fertility clinics, they see that... the results in humans are almost exactly the same as had been established for about 50 years in animals. That fertility requires from 50 to 100 times as much progesterone as estrogen. And that goes back to the fact that estrogen creates stress, miscarriage, and abortion. And progesterone is really the progestational hormone. It really antagonizes the miscarriage-producing effect of estrogen. And so the more you have, the better it is for pregnancy. And the person who is fertile is also resistant to stress in general and shock and so on. I think that... That's kind of somewhere I want to go right now as far as discussing estrogen and its role in stress and how that all kind of comes together because even speaking and, you know, speaking about infertility and all these clinics that have popped up and how much more infertility we're seeing with people and miscarriages and whatnot. And again, estrogen's role in stress and how that all kind of comes together because I think it's a huge problem when we're seeing such a huge imbalance. Whether it's an estrogen dominance or a progesterone deficiency, kind of what are some of the environmental components that are contributing to this? Because when people think stress, they think emotional or this or that, but it's really more looking out around the environment to see what's creating this imbalance in women because, I mean, I know I'm probably not the only one that's seen this huge imbalance. Something stressful in the environment. It tends to increase estrogen. This research goes back to about 1940. The Biskons showed that malnutrition, after the Second World War, they tested it on humans, but they had been testing it on rats, showing that malnutrition and other stresses would increase the estrogen, primarily in their studies. Malnutrition causes the liver to be unable to destroy estrogen, which normally 100% of the estrogen that gets to the liver is prepared for excretion by the kidneys or into the bile. And if the liver is underactive because of, for example, a protein or vitamin B deficiency or a thyroid deficiency, a hundred percent of the estrogen reaching the liver can pass right through it back into the bloodstream. And that recirculating estrogen then turns on the adrenal stress hormones directly by acting on the adrenal cortex and by blocking the ability of the thyroid gland to secrete the thyroid hormone which is needed by the liver. to inactivate estrogen, so a protein deficiency or a B vitamin deficiency is one of the things that can turn on absolute estrogen control and infertility. Thyroid used to be in the 1940s and before was recognized as the basic fertility drug. And as progesterone came to be understood, it was seen that thyroid is needed to turn cholesterol into progesterone to maintain a healthy pregnancy. And increasingly, one of the environmental factors that impairs liver function, increases estrogen activity, and inhibits thyroid function is the... unsaturated oil, polyunsaturated, so-called essential fatty acids. These are all anti-thyroid and pro-estrogen and anti-progesterone. And some French researchers who had been hearing the propaganda about fish oil being good for the brain decided that they would demonstrate that fetuses are smarter. When the mother is getting a fish oil supplement by doing a sound and response test on the woman's abdomen, getting the fetus reaction to a sound, and they found that the women who were getting the fish oil supplement, the fetuses had retarded learning reactions. That's what happened. When the babies were born, they found that not only were they smaller overall, but their brains were smaller. And if they had been paying attention to the animal research in the preceding 50 years, they would have seen that this is very predictable, that polyunsaturated fatty acids, by increasing estrogen, lowering thyroid and progesterone, retard the development of the brain of the fetus. So, any stress alone, obviously, like you said, can mimic the estrogen reaction, but you're saying that foods in itself can actually, like foods that are high in unsaturated fats or fish oils, can actually mimic that reaction, which can down-regulate the thyroid, as well as, what's the word I'm looking for, not back up the liver, but create liver toxicity problems, as well as. You know, gut issues and inflammation and things like that, correct? Yeah, the intestine is a very important factor because the liver excretes part of the estrogen through the kidneys by making it water soluble. But part of it which isn't that water soluble goes into the bile and is excreted with the feces, assuming everything is working right. Mm-hmm. If the wrong bacteria are present and the bowel is sluggish, which always happens in hypothyroidism, that estrogen tends to be reabsorbed, adding stress to the liver and raising the systemic estrogen level. So sometimes just an antibiotic will drastically and immediately lower your estrogen and... stress hormones and increase the progesterone just by limiting that reabsorption from the intestine. And that's what got me interested in the raw carrot effect. You see the same effect, lower estrogen and cortisol and higher progesterone within about three days of eating a raw carrot every day. So everyone that's listening, he talked about this last show, he uses just a one raw carrot to help prevent reabsorption of this estrogen or toxins in the intestines. So he uses the food as a source of almost like charcoal in a sense to help prevent toxicity in the liver. Yeah, as well as absorbing the estrogen like charcoal it reduces the absorption of endotoxin and serotonin the intestine is a constant source of stress from endotoxin according to how irritated it is and how poorly digested the starch and fiber are and so on and once it gets irritated then it can produce massive amounts of serotonin that disturb the whole system alright now we're talking about estrogen but there's other hormones that are correlated with it so maybe we can touch upon kind of rewind a little and talk about you know prolactin and what it can do to the body and their correlation maybe with osteoporosis and cortisol and adrenaline and even histamine because we're talking about them I think it's important for people to know it's not just estrogen it's how it can actually cause a hormonal cascade of all these other hormones including serotonin you Yeah, the brain, many people have been taught that mast cells or basophils are the only cells that produce histamine, but any cell in the body seems to be able to produce it. Cancer cells can produce it. Brain cells, there's a network in the lower part of the brain that specializes in histamine signaling. To the rest of the brain and it seems to be a stress organizing influence and serotonin is the other general stress signaling system in the brain. When anything goes wrong your brain activates the histamine and serotonin system and prolactin is one of the stress reacting hormones. ACTH and thyroid stimulating hormone or others. But the prolactin can be used as an indicator of many bad conditions. It tends to increase steadily with aging in both men and women. And the normal range for prolactin about 30 years ago... was lowered because they saw that people with the... I forget the units, but the standard number, the top had been 20, but they started seeing that that was really... the top number was increased because of the large number of women who were using birth control pills, and there was an epidemic of prolactin secreting pituitary tumors. resulting from the contraceptive estrogen exposure and so 30 years ago the healthy normal range for prolactin was set back to 2 to 12 and with age that's a healthy person will rise in old age maybe 8 or 10 or something like that but just a few years ago the top number was raised in some labs to 25 or 30 because the average person is now in a stressed hyperprolactinemic condition so if you don't feel reassured if your prolactin is only 18 or 20 on the test because everything is under stress when it's that high. It's been known for many years that prolactin is a major factor in bone loss. A long time editor of the yearbook of endocrinology in one of, I think it might have been the very last volume he edited. He said it's interesting that prolactin causes osteoporosis, that estrogen increases prolactin but people are being told that estrogen will prevent osteoporosis. And he said what's going on? And that was his last year as the editor of that book. And men develop osteoporosis progressively. with age and with increasing prolactin. So men also have a tendency for the estrogen to creep up with age pushing the prolactin and stress hormones up. So it isn't strictly a female thing, but when progesterone falls at the first missed period out. around menopause, that's when bone loss really picks up and prolactin becomes active under the unopposed influence of estrogen. Right, that was kind of my next question, the correlation between that. Because you read a lot out there, like I know, I studied Dr. John Lee a lot and Dr. McCormick and they talk a lot about that, how prolactin is increased with estrogen production. Because a lot of people don't know that estrogen and progesterone actually play a part. In osteoclast and osteoblast, you know, production in regards to bone kind of building up and bone loss and prolapse as well. Go ahead. In the textbook we used in my endocrinology course, Constance Martin pointed out that people had been looking for an effect of estrogen on the bones in various animals and humans. But at that time... in 1970, there had been no evidence that estrogen increased bone calcium retention, although it did increase the soft tissue calcification. That was very well established in animal research by the late 1960s. But the first model for... estrogen's effect on the bone they tried was the Beagle dog, and in them estrogen caused many problems including bone loss. But they found that rats were a good model. It turns out that cortisol also increases bone density in rats. Their endocrine systems are very different because they live at night and are very short-lived. It just turned out that rats were a good model for selling estrogen as a way to prevent bone loss, but the effect they could see that estrogen was immediately doing was reducing osteoclast activity. Therefore they said it stops bone turnover if you stop breaking down the bone. That's what you need to slow the bone loss and that was the whole basis. Interestingly, the animal research was the whole basis for selling estrogen for preventing bone loss. But human research was the basis for getting FDA approval for DES. and other estrogens in the first place because animal research had shown estrogen to be almost across the board toxic and carcinogenic. So they can use clinical reports in humans which are very subjective when they want to sell a product. But if they can find an animal model... where they don't have any data in humans, they'll use the animal model. So it's important to look at what the salesmen are referring to. Is it a clinical or an animal model? And how relevant and how valid are they? Right. Yep. Yep. Ray did a lot of good stuff out there, guys, as well as Dr. John Lee. And there's another gentleman named Dr. McCormick who did a radio show on osteoporosis, so you can read more about that. Why don't we talk a little bit more about estrogen, then I want to talk about progesterone, because we're getting carried away with estrogen, which is important, but maybe talk about, you know, because a lot of people that are listening are practitioners, but a lot of lay people, so some of that stuff goes over the head. You know, kind of explain, because I know you talk about one of your books, there's kind of four ways you can be estrogen-dominant, but maybe talk about some of the... The symptoms, per se, like you talk about puffy skin and hypothyroidism and things like that. Maybe talk more about some of the symptoms that people might see if they are estrogen-dominant or progesterone-deficient. Since it's excitatory, it can temporarily increase alertness. It acts on the same enzymes that cocaine acts on to increase the adrenaline. action in the brain and increases verbal activity so that women can talk twice as fast as men under the influence of estrogen. And that's sold as a cognitive virtue except that that carried on for a long time is excitotoxic to the nerves and causes loss of nerve cell function. And the more acute effects of estrogen dominance in the brain can include chorea, sort of uncontrolled, unexpected movements of the arms and legs and such. And epilepsy or seizures are promoted by estrogen. Water retention is... really the first action of estrogen on the cell in exciting it causes it to take up water. Anything that... if you block the oxygen delivery to a cell, it'll take up water too. So the excitation moves the cell's requirements to a level that can't be sustained so the oxygen becomes deficient. It takes up water and shifts its pH and electrical charge and that same shift of water into the cell makes the walls of the blood vessels leaky to water. And so the water shifts, letting sodium and water both go into the tissues causing the feet to swell up while you're standing up. During the night, your face will share the water burden. But the estrogen, that immediate water logging effect can be compensated by the adrenaline, the cortex, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone effect, which is to try to compensate for that leakiness. By increasing the sodium retention in the kidney, at first sodium falls in estrogen dominance as it goes out of the bloodstream into the tissue. But then activating this blood pressure regulating system, you can shift from low blood pressure and swollen feet to high blood pressure and all of the stress. Related cortisol dominant syndrome with even at an extreme you can get gangrene constriction of the blood vessels of the extremities and the calcification of soft tissues that the old endocrine textbooks used to mention. That was another thing that Hans Sely investigated in great depth. He called it calcifilaxis and calcergy in which the excited blood vessels first constrict and load up on calcium. Estrogen releasing histamine and serotonin precedes that, but calcification and then that you have to identify so the blood vessels can these injured areas tend to load up with iron in most cases and the iron increases the breakdown free radical production in these tissues so it can lead to such things as gangrene of the fingers and toes and scleroderma hardening of the skin in various areas that are stressed. And I've seen people recover in just a couple of weeks from scleroderma when they stopped using an estrogen supplement. Yeah. And, Keith, remember, I want to speak for Ray, you know, because I understand a lot of his stuff, but, of course, a lot of his stuff is just over my head, too. But, you know, there's many ways you can be, quote-unquote, estrogen-dominant. You know, your body can have difficulty detoxing it in the liver. It could be excess because of stress or synthetic stress. You know, prescriptions you're taking. It could be from your body oversynthesizing progesterone because of a stress or you could just be progesterone deficient. So I think it's person dependent, wouldn't you say? Or is it always the same? Oh, it's always different. But if you keep those different factors in mind, it's possible to figure it out because it's a balance between... quick emergency stress reactions and then long-term decompensation of the reactions. And progesterone and thyroid are the things that give you the basic long-term protection. Right, and I think listeners need to hear that. You know, just because you're not taking a synthetic, or you might be, which is important to research because I find most people are taking stuff they know nothing about, but... We both, men and women, have estrogen, so you can still have these effects. Men can have estrogen, you know, so this can be just physiological as well, so it's not just from taking something. We've talked a lot about estrogen. Go ahead, Jeannie, I'm sorry. Well, I was just going to say, in regards to that, as far as how people become estrogen-dominant, we've touched on a few different factors, but one you just mentioned, Josh, is that... in a stress response and in relation to the hormonal pathway, we've talked so much about estrogen, but how do we become, again, so estrogen-dominant, so progesterone deficiency, and I think that's a huge point, in a stress reaction, the body's going to almost bypass the production of progesterone, or use that for the production of cortisol, in order to maintain or be able to... respond, in a sense. I guess, under stress, it's not important that we procreate or that we go to the bathroom, or whatever the case may be, or digest our foods, or whatever it is. The more important thing is that we have enough cortisol on hand to keep the brain working and everything else, our main organs functioning. So I think, you know, when it comes to progesterone, what is the role that progesterone plays with... estrogen? I mean, they clearly work together. Yeah, the... stress will, if you just look at the protein that they call the estrogen receptor and the progesterone receptor, each one acts outside of that system, but those are useful places to focus your attention. Stress activates the estrogen receptor. And estrogen activates and maintains the estrogen receptor in most systems. But once the estrogen is acting, that turns on the cell's production of the progesterone receptor that binds progesterone. And when progesterone is available and fills that protein receptor, that ______ ______ ______. It destroys the estrogen receptor. So progesterone is an anti-estrogen in a very absolute sense. It knocks out the protein that keeps it in the cell. It knocks out the sulfatase and glucuronidase enzymes that allow it to condense in the cell. And it activates positively the enzymes that eliminate ______. estrogen from the cell and inhibits aromatase which makes new estrogen and so on. So there are seven or eight specific mechanisms by which progesterone neutralizes and destroys and eliminates estrogen. So many people have wanted to say that it synergizes with estrogen, but ______. It doesn't really, it destroys estrogen in a very thorough manner, but estrogen, if your body can respond, if it has thyroid, vitamin A, and cholesterol, which are the materials needed to convert cholesterol to progesterone, given an estrogen stimulation, your body will make a massive amount of progesterone. Get rid of the estrogen and go on to differentiate the functioning, for example, of the breast and the uterus for lactation and pregnancy. And the progesterone counters the effect on all of the peripheral effects. For example, estrogen activates the adrenal cortex to produce albastrone and cortisol. And progesterone not only counteracts that effect in the adrenal gland, but even if you're injected with albastrone and cortisol, if you have adequate progesterone, the peripheral effects of those hormones are blocked. Progesterone will serve in place of cortisol or albastrone if you don't have either of those hormones. Because the adrenals are removed, so it will let the kidneys function properly and take care of most inflammations and so on. But if you have an excess of albastrone and cortisol, progesterone also prevents the toxic effects of those hormones the way it protects against toxic effects of estrogen. So progesterone fields in. For a deficiency of many hormones and protects against an excess of those same hormones. Right, right. And you talk about two. What role does it play with magnesium? Because you talk about a lot in your book. What's it called? Like the fourth molecular progesterone book that you've written that's created everyone to get it. Can you elaborate on its role with magnesium? Um, well, partly, uh. Jerry Aikawa was a magnesium specialist who wrote at least one good book on magnesium. He showed that the cell which needs magnesium for many functions, but, for example, ATP is stabilized in the presence of magnesium, and if magnesium is deficient, you're energy deficient. So, and, uh. nd that contributes to cell swelling. If the mast cell is magnesium deficient, it can't retain histamine and serotonin and other inflammatory things. And so, whatever holds magnesium inside the cell prevents inflammation and allows differentiation and good function. And Jerry Aikawa showed that thyroid the T3 especially is what is needed by the cell to retain magnesium and I think the production of ATP and carbon dioxide is the mechanism by which the thyroid regulates the retention of magnesium and the reduction of histamine, serotonin and other inflammatory things by magnesium and its association with high energy cell metabolism and production of carbon dioxide antagonize the improper actions of calcium when the cell is inflamed or de-energized. In the absence of thyroid and magnesium, it takes up calcium and the reason it takes it up is partly because the calcium should be held in suspension in the blood as an ion combined with carbon dioxide or bicarbonate. If you lose the bicarbonate, then the calcium goes into the cell and keeps it in an excited inflamed state. And so the proper condition of the calcium goes with the availability of magnesium and the magnesium keeps the platelet as well as the mast cell from degranulating and putting out serotonin and other inflammatory and clot-promoting agents. The name of his book is Progesterone and Orthomolecular Medicine, I didn't have it in front of me, but it's a great book. It looks like a small book, but it's packed with great info. Mine's basically, I should have just dipped it in red ink, but it's a great book and he talks about the benefits of progesterone and how it works to basically restrain blood clotting and help balance blood sugar and help with kidney function and down-regulate histamine. You know, so it's got a lot of different functions in the body. So it's definitely worth reading whether you're in the industry or not. If you have progesterone in your body, you should be reading it. That's my opinion on it. You know, our last chat, we talked a lot about the thyroid. Can you and you kind of mentioned a little bit in how estrogen in itself, I guess we could say down regulates the thyroid and we could say that progesterone would. stimulate the thyroid. But you talked about how we also need vitamin A and cholesterol to produce progesterone. Without medications, how one might do that with nutrition? And I'm not looking for, you know, of course we don't have to have the plan, just some basic recommendations. The factor of polyunsaturated fats... In the last 50 years, this has been probably the main thing interfering with thyroid function, and you can block that very quickly with coconut oil because of the quick availability of the short and medium chain saturated fats. They compete against the polyunsaturated fats for......producing oxygen in the mitochondria. The short-chain saturated fats are anti-inflammatory and have many indirect, helpful functions, but they provide energy so quickly that they block many of the actions of the polyunsaturated fats. And the thyroid and the mitochondrial energy production are constantly... under a breaking influence of the polyunsaturated fats. When you're under stress, you free fatty acids to circulate. So every time you're under stress, your thyroid function is blocked a little bit and your cellular ability to use sugar is blocked a little bit. Coconut oil gives you a temporary reprieve while it's being digested. For a couple hours after eating it, it interferes with that blocking system of the polyunsaturated fats. Sugar does the same thing, only it doesn't have the same competitive power against the fatty acids. When you're having enough sugar and saturated fatty acids... to interrupt the anti-metabolic effect of the polyunsaturated fats, your blood sugar is stable and more available to be used and stored in the liver. And the liver senses the availability of fuel, especially glucose, to govern your thyroid function. And the way it does that is......local rather than acting through your pituitary or thyroid gland. Your thyroid gland puts out about three parts of thyroxine for every part of active T3 hormone. And your liver, when it senses that you have enough fuel as glucose or short fatty acids, will allow the thyroxine to be turned into the active T3. And will provide a very high and adequate thyroid hormone. The thyroid gland itself directly contributes about 30% of the active stuff. So it takes a little while for a change in the thyroid gland to affect the metabolism where the liver is instantly monitoring the amount of fuel. And adjusting accordingly. So, as long as your liver has enough glucose stored as glycogen to keep your blood sugar steady for 8 hours or so, your metabolic rate will stay the same. As soon as your liver runs out of glucose, if you're not getting a steady supply from your food, then your T3 production falls immediately by... about 60 or 70 percent, and then your thyroid and pituitary sense those changes and will adjust slightly later than your liver. So, the one reason I like Ray's philosophy, guys, is it's super unconventional, but it's really how the body works. And the thing with the thyroid is, if you're eating, if you take away the foods that are... creating inflammation and creating that stress response that he's talked about, like the cortisol adrenaline, which downregulates the thyroid. And you eat the foods that allow for the conversion of thyroid and allow for the liver to work properly. And a lot of them, of course, are anti-inflammatory proteins. You know, maybe we'll do some shows on that. But eating the right types of vegetables, obviously you've seen on his site, he advocates sugar. So it's a huge part, along with everything else. The coconut oil in regards to stimulating the thyroid and pushing you into that anti-inflammatory state. It can be done with food. It doesn't always have to be herbs, plant-based supplements, and things like that. So I think that's an important thing to take away. I think we've got a couple more questions and then we'll just maybe take some calls if we have them and then wrap it up. I actually kind of want to ask or touch on or have Ray kind of explain, you know, there's a lot of women out there who are, you know, upon menopause went to the doctor and got put on different HRT, you know, hormone therapy or women who are on the pill, can you kind of talk about that a little bit and what some alternative methods may be for women who want to protect themselves against these estrogens or increased estrogens or even, you know, young women on the pill who are altering their hormonal balances through being on the pill. What would you... The consumption of the menopausal hormones decreased drastically after the 2002 Women's Health Initiative results came out showing that estrogen causes strokes and heart attacks. Dementia and cancer, the things that they were selling it to prevent. But the industry always comes back with propaganda pieces in all the medical journals. And so a lot of women are again being indoctrinated to take it. The short term benefit is that it's very much like cocaine. It peps you up. If a person wants to withdraw from it, there's often a time of depression and low energy. And while adjusting the thyroid and progesterone and diet functions, sometimes it just helps to supplement coffee to keep the mental energy up. And the hot flashes are really, it's a... a complex set of reactions, but I experienced hot flashes when I traveled to Mexico and was exerting too much, too fast for not being adapted to the altitude. And every time I would stop and rest, I would have a hot flash. And that started me looking around and... I noticed young women who were working very hard were suffering hot flashes in their twenties. It isn't just a menopausal thing, but it's a stress, adrenaline, cortisol, very complex set of reactions. And the simplest, safest way to respond to them is, for example... If you have night sweats and hot flushes during the night, having a lot of carbohydrate at bedtime will normally be enough to stop them. And having a snack of a glass of orange juice and milk several times through the day will usually stop them. Some salty food to steady the blood sugar and adrenaline will very often. Be all it takes to stop the heart flashing. Now, Ray, I just want to clarify something because, you know, a lot of people listen and they hear what you're saying, and I know what you're saying, but I know some people just hear high carbohydrate meals. And, you know, people are always looking for a way to push someone down, and people can run with that and go, well, you know, Ray Pete advocates eating a high carbohydrate meal. I want to clarify that. My perception of what you're saying is you're talking more of the right types of carbohydrates in regards to your tropical fruits, your root vegetables, milk and sugar, orange juice. You're not talking about, you know, pots and pot parts and things like that. No, there are many problems with the starchy foods, so I'm strongly against all of the grainy starches in particular. If you're going to have to eat a high carbohydrate meal, you're going to have to eat a high carbohydrate meal. starch just to get by. It should be cooked for maybe 40 minutes as a minimum and then eaten with cream, butter, or coconut oil because the starch grains very easily find their way into the bloodstream of other body fluids where they, in the bloodstream, they clog small arterioles. cause systemic injury chronically. They've demonstrated that in mice as well as people. Cooking the starch much more than normal and eating it with quite a bit of fat is protective, but still people keep sending me studies showing that in a study of five weeks or so. They argue that there's a great benefit from feeding a high starch diet rather than a high sugar diet. But when you look at the long-range effects, if they continued, you'd see a super obese, stressed, older animal if it lived on that same high starch diet where the sugar helps to regulate the adrenal and the thyroid. hormones and to moderate the insulin and other adaptive hormones and I don't advocate eating although I think a person should have at least 80 to 100 grams of good protein every day and more is okay but it's important not to eat too much protein by itself. I had the experience of almost fainting after eating. Just eggs for breakfast when I was in a hurry in a cold climate and I heard that it was fairly common for women on a diet if they just ate eggs to faint about an hour later because the egg protein is very high quality and stimulates insulin secretion which lowers the blood sugar and that calls for a very intense cortisol reaction and it often can produce a fainting reaction but it always produces the insulin cortisol reaction which has chronic cumulative effects aging your brain cells and immune system and so on. So it's very important to not burn the protein for a long time. You want the protein to be used as protein, not as a substitute for sugar and fat. So having it with sugar and fat. Right. Yeah. Just like the paleo diet. Well, I'd love to do a show on macromicronutrients. I just wanted to clarify that because I know some people could easily take that out of context. That's not what he's talking about. The one thing we found that works great with us and a lot of our clients... is fiber. When it comes to regulating body temperature and down-regulating adrenaline, especially a bed, is very in sugar. It's with gelatin as well, so it's great to help down-regulate adrenaline, help with people's sleep patterns. And of course, as many of the pieces of the puzzle, but it's one thing we found that's definitely helped. We'll do a show at some point, I guess, if you don't mind, and we can talk about it. Macro and micronutrients. So I guess when it comes to HRT, what do you, you know, I know you do recommend taking progesterone, and there's many types of progesterone. Can you maybe elaborate a little bit on, you know, I know you like yards that suspend in vitamin E, and that a lot of people say, well, you know, I do these drops or I take the cream. You know, what's the major difference between these? Well, for about 40 years I've been......telling people that I don't believe in hormone replacement therapy because I've seen so many people on dementia, epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis, other types of arthritis, and totally disabling diseases I've seen recover overnight from one dose of progesterone. Most of these people, I've seen them 10, 20, 30 years later and they still hadn't had a recurrence of that terrible problem. So I think of progesterone, if it doesn't work within a week, something else should be fixed. So I advocate the diet first. Thyroid next, and then you probably, if your cholesterol is okay, and you're eating right, and your thyroid is working, then you don't need progesterone. But for an emergency, the things I do recommend it for are epilepsy, other movement disorders, MS, dementia. All types of mental impairments and arthritis of all sorts. Any very acute migraine, it'll usually stop a migraine if you have some backup of thyroid function. It'll stop a migraine sometimes in two minutes with a big dose. So for any disabling acute thing, for example, there are studies now being done on brain trauma patients. If you can get the progesterone to them in the first day, they practically all recover where before they would have practically all died. So I think it's important for the listeners because... You know, Ray has his thoughts on gelatin and sugar and progesterone and estrogen and stress and all these foods. The thing is, it's all individualized. Not every single person needs progesterone. There's only certain times you need it or... You know, try the nutrition first, which is, nutrition is really specific. And like I said, we work with people based on our interpretations of his work. Try that first to make sure, to see if you can get the thyroid working and down regulate stress. And then, you know, last ditch, try... the progesterone. But it can be used, like you said, for specific disorders and insomnia, to definitely help people. I, you know, it's... we've gone about an hour and 20 minutes. I don't really have any more questions. Of course, you know, I would sit here for hours and hours and hours and talk about this stuff, but like I said, guys, Ray's got tons of articles on his website on estrogen and progesterone. His book on progesterone is great. From PMS to Menopause is probably one of my favorite books that he's written. It's a great book you can look into. Jeannie, do you have any more questions for Ray? I don't at this time, no. I think we've got a lot of great information. Yeah, I mean, I think it's a lot for people to kind of digest, and there's a lot more to it than even what we covered. So definitely check out his website. Do you have anything else you might want to add, Ray? You had sent a question about Barberg's theory of cancer, and that's something that lots of people are starting to talk about again. After he was ridiculed by most doctors in the United States for about 30 or 40 years, people are now starting to talk about him again. But they're invariably misinterpreting him. They haven't read what he really said, and they're thinking... that you should go on a sugar-free diet or something that had really nothing to do with what Barberg was talking about. What he said was that the respiratory apparatus, the mitochondrion, is impaired and causes cancer. And with the impaired mitochondrion, the cell can't turn off its... use of glucose. He didn't say that it stops its use of body tissues. The cancer goes on burning. The body's protein and fat stores at a tremendous rate. And if you give it sugar, you can slow down the destruction of the body. But what he emphasized was that the sugar... is being converted to lactic acid even when there's a good supply of it in the body. And what you want to do is prevent the destruction of the body by the tumor. And lactic acid happens to turn on all of the stress reactions, inflammatory mediators, promoting the spread of cancer and the survival of cancer by... promoting the conversion of the body into fuel for the cancer. So the sugar-free diet that a lot of people are now blaming on Warburg doesn't really fit with what he did. Right, and he's referring to... I can never pronounce it. I think it's spelled W-A-R-B-U-R-G-S, theory on cancer, Warburg's theory on cancer. Yeah, so it's about our bodies' incorrect use of sugar, in a sense. And when you talk about CO2 and all these different things and oxygen, I guess we could start saying it's more...estrogen even has more of an effect on that because of how it pulls oxygen from the tissues and, you know, even from our organs. Yeah, the instantaneous effect of either estrogen or... unsaturated fatty acids is to imitate the Barberg effect of lacking the Pasteur effect, which is for oxygen to turn off lactic acid. In the presence of high estrogen and high polyunsaturated fats, we'll make lactic acid and not be able to use the energy oxidatively. And correct me if I'm wrong, that he's actually saying, or you're saying, it's actually the lack of sugar that's creating the excess estrogen, or it's the poofies that are getting sugar into the cell, that's creating the cancer, and it's not too much sugar, it's actually not enough. Yeah, the cancer is eating everything at a high rate, including wasting the sugar by turning it to lactic acid, which burdens the whole system and that. That turns on the stress system. Right. It's all great stuff, guys. Like I said, his approach and theory is definitely against the grain, but it works and it makes sense. The way I explain it to people, I don't know, this is what I say. You read his stuff, you've got to find a little bit in this article and that article, kind of like where's Waldo, and intertwine it together. And if you can do that, you'll have a great philosophy. So, anything else you want to add or any other questions? Jeannie, I know I'm pretty much, I think I've got all my questions answered, I'm sure. Yeah, I think we touched on everything. Yeah. So, unless you have anything else to add, Ray, we really appreciate you once again coming on. We've had tons of listeners, thousands of listeners, and people are really... really taking in what you say and honestly appreciating it. So everyone says thank you for coming out each month and sharing your knowledge. Okay. Yeah, I've been getting a lot of emails, but I won't even be able to fill book orders for a few weeks because we've got to get caught up. Right. Well, everyone definitely appreciates that. And I gave everyone a little introduction speech at the beginning in regards to that because everyone does value their time and I don't want people to take advantage of your time. Okay. So I gave them a little speech, but we definitely appreciate it. And if you don't have anything to add, we'd like to say thanks and have a wonderful day. Okay. Thank you. All right, Ray. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. So guys, once again, Ray P, check out his website, R-A-Y-P-E-A-T-E. Lots of great articles and books. If you're starting out, books are probably easier to read than the articles, but just grab one and just start reading. Just jump in. It's not going to make sense, but just keep reading and reading the articles and connect the dots. It takes years. This stuff is technical, but it's just great stuff. Didn't take callers, didn't really feel like taking callers, you know, as you always see, it kind of frustrates me, so I just said, hey, I'm not going to take them, I'd rather just listen to Ray talk and educate us all. If you've got questions, like I said, you can contact Ray. Please, even send him a dollar, I don't care what it is, ten, hundred, five hundred, whatever you want to send him, please send him something, not just to send it to him, but if you're asking him questions via email, and I know a lot of you have, he'll just answer them. He's a great guy. It's not the subtle answer, but it takes a lot of time sometimes to answer all these questions, so. Oh, I know. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in. Check back. We'll have our next show posted soon in regards to the month of April in regards to Ray's show. Next week we're actually going to be doing a show Tuesday at one o'clock Pacific Coast time. A gentleman named Matt Stone. He's got a website and blog out there. You can look him up on Facebook as well. He contacted us and wanted to do a show, the three of us, more like a conversation type show in regards to, you know, health, weight loss, thyroid, liver, you know, all that stuff out there and what's worked and what hasn't worked in regards to Ray Peake's philosophy in Protobarns because he's been using it for years. So it's going to be a conversational show. I guess more layman's terms of Ray's philosophies, you know, what are anti-inflammatory proteins and why use gelatin, why we're advocating sugar and why is it important to use temperature and pulse. So check it out. Obviously, it's a free show and it'll just be the three of us chatting in. So and we'll be taking callers. So that's all I have to say. I think I produce more estrogen because I talk fast. That's my correlation from today's show. All right. And then thanks guys for joining us. All right. We'll see you guys later. Need one more reason why your Safeway store is just better? How about free Cuisinart Classic Cutlery or Elite Flatware? That's right! For every $10 you spend, earn a free stamp saver you can redeem for Cuisinart items. Once you've collected between 30 and 60 stamps, you can start shopping for a variety of Cuisinart Cutlery or Flatware, available at the in-store display. Present your items and stamp saver at checkout. It's simple. Spend $10, get your free stamp saver, start collecting. Safeway. It's just better.