 podcast I am pleased to have Dr. Pete on with me again today so I don't think he needs any introduction but I will give a slight introduction and those of you who have not familiarized yourself yet with Dr. Raymond Pete you can check him out at r-a-y-p-e-a-t.com and we're gonna be talking today about testosterone and high cortisol and You know, I wanted to touch on this because we're seeing a lot or at least I am seeing a lot in my nutrition practice of Clients coming in with their blood work and having too high of cortisol and too low of testosterone even women So I think it's a pretty important topic and I wanted to ask the what I consider though in my opinion the leading authority in health And wellness since he's been teaching now and probably well, I would say learning and teaching for how many years dr. Pete altogether As early as 1960, when I was doing it independently then, I concentrated on the hormones between 1968 and 1972 when I got my P. Yeah, I know you've taught at numerous schools, the University of Oregon Urbana College, Montana State University, the Natural College of Naturopathic Medicine, and you've even taught internationally in Mexico as well. So I mean, since I consider you the leading authority based on everybody that I've looked into over the years to try to get my information from, and as a nutritionist, I find that yours is the most logical and the most backed with science. So thank you. I really appreciate all that you've taught me so far and I know my listeners will really benefit from this podcast too. So I want to talk to you specifically about low testosterone and high cortisol, kind of a tag team of symptoms I'm seeing. And I want you to fill my listeners in on why this might be happening. Maybe you've seen it kind of come to fruition too. And maybe there's some listening out there that have some of the symptoms that I wanted you to touch on with regard to it as well. So could you talk about why maybe... cortisol is so high in so many people right now and the the sex hormones basically are down? Well, it isn't the sex hormones as a group, because estrogen rises when you're under stress along with... Cortisol And when the Endertons in check general decrease, that usually goes with a decrease of progesterone. And that creates a susceptibility to stress. And everything harmful practically will increase both your estrogen and cortisol. And the first barrier to harm is the group of steroids, pregnenolone, progesterone. D-H-E-A-M... testosterone all of these have broadly over at overlapping protective effects that protect your energy apparatus your sensory apparatus Keep things stable and working and Injury simply doesn't happen when you have a great abundance of those things You Can run a marathon or swim in ice water Do all sorts of things that could kill a more fragile person You're really well supplied with Pregnetilone and its derivatives down to Testosterone. It's got endurance so you don't experience. When something happens that you're not abundantly producing the protective... steroids, then any little thing becomes stressful. Just walking can be a stress. Breathing harder, you will shift over to the lactic acid. metabolism. With increasing age or malnutrition anything that interferes with the production of these protective steroids makes you then shift over to the emergency production of cortisol and all of these protective steroids block the effect of cortisol so that you can take a cortisol pill or prednisone or whatever and have very little harm from it if you're fairly saturated with progesterone, DHEA, testosterone because they're preventing the action as well as taking care of some of the things that cortisol would produce. For example cortisol maintains your blood sugar level so that you can keep working but it does it by converting your protein-eating tissues, muscles, skin, thymus gland, lymphatic tissues in general and finally digestion. system, liver and intestine will be cannibalized to make sugar and energy under the influence of cortisol. The protective effect of testosterone was demonstrated by the fact that sugar and once using radioactive testosterone molecules, they injected it into athletes and thought that they would. the radiation coming out of their muscles but what they saw was the most of the radiation was coming from their heart Testosterone is most concentrated in the organs that are most vital to survival So it concentrates in the heart lungs and brain at the highest ratio to protein even though It's responsible for making an athlete's muscles are bigger and bigger under the influence of testosterone What it's doing is pretending. those being used up for energy, so with age, if you're producing less of the protective steroids, a given amount of cortisol might not look extremely high in relation to the standards, but if you're pregnant on progesterone, DHEA, and testosterone are lower than average, even a moderate amount of cortisol begins eating up your muscles and skin, and eventually it can start deteriorating at your heart. I want to come back to the athlete kind of mentality of low testosterone and high cortisol because I think that's really important to talk about too but you had said something that kind of made me question like is it the chicken or the egg like is it a high cortisol response that leads to low things like low progesterone low testosterone or is it something happening that causes the low progesterone and low testosterone and leads to the stress response of high cortisol? It's usually a gradual deterioration from poor nutrition or eating foods that are irritating. or toxic, or things that, for example, foods that suppress your thyroid function. Fibroids are necessary to produce these protective steroids. Fibroids are necessary to produce these protective steroids. and the other protective steroids if you have vitamin A and thyroid hormone adequately. But if you're deficient in either of those, the cholesterol will rise in your blood that generally means that you're not making enough DHEA and testosterone for example so low thyroid which causes high cholesterol the real meaning of that is that you're not making enough of the protective testosterone and related steroids. And when that happens, your cortisol and other stress hormones rise. So low thyroid is the most common thing responsible for a bad ratio of cortisol to testosterone. That makes complete sense and so then leading into like whether it's the bad foods or the thyroid being a result of poor nutrition as you say too could it also be like the athletes we were talking about maybe over training over exercising that can also lead to this like just too much chronic output that's stressing the body in a physical manner? I even did an experiment putting people on a treadmill and measuring their...active thyroid hormone, T3, and they had them walk at, they kept their pulse rate at a hundred and twenty... per minute or less just very mild walking on the treadmill and in an hour they have become hypothyroid in the sense of reducing their activation of thyroid in the t3 but Doctors are now being taught that they should ignore T3, the active hormone, and think about only thyroid-stimulating hormones. Yes age and only Cyroxon or t4, but when you're An athlete for example is depressing their t3 their Cyroxon will actually rise in the future. reaction and so doctors are being taught things that will make them necessarily miss the effects of stress on your thyroid and that leads to misinterpretation of everything downstream. For example when your thyroid goes down from stress your estrogen normally is being excreted and kept at a low level systemically. By the thyroid activating the liver metabolism the liver solubilizes estrogen making it leave through the kidneys and be excreted. If your thyroid drops from stress very quickly your estrogen will rise and then the estrogen activates directly on the adrenals it increases cortisol production and many other levels it activates your pituitary to stimulate cortisol production from the adrenals and it activates your brain in many different ways through the corticotropic release factor CRH to activate the adrenals and pituitary. So just dropping the active thyroid you very quickly turn on both the estrogen and the whole cortisol stress system. And I would assume a someone who is looking to put on muscle and maybe an athlete that's looking to train for an event they're not going to want excess estrogen and so what that study you were saying is like they were just walking and t3 was reduced and so imagine these people are you familiar Dr. Pete with like CrossFit? Yeah intense over exertion. The Russians were 50 or 60 years ago being accused of using testosterone because they had worked out the way to entertain, avoid over exertion and so keep their stress hormones down and their cortisol up. It takes really a very moderate amount of muscle building exercise to increase testosterone and lower cortisol. The muscle itself becomes an endocrine organ in a constructive sense. under stress your muscle will actually produce cortisol and not testosterone when it's properly stimulated the muscle becomes a testosterone stimulated It isn't just the gonads that produce testosterone if you're doing things. So pretty much this this chronic output of like these crossfit classes they're going to and heavy lifting or heavy-duty weight training and things like that. A woman doing just one or two minutes of mild dumbbell lifts and a few squats for the big leg muscles can shift her balance from cortisol to testosterone. It just takes a minute or two or three times a day, whatever it takes to increase the muscle mass. It's really a very small amount of muscle lifting type exercise. Okay, so that's good to know. So it is beneficial to lift heavy things, but we don't need to do these hour-long CrossFit classes that are pushing your body to the limit and doing it every day kind of thing to where instead of creating muscle building, you're actually inducing a cortisol response, yes? Yes. Okay, yeah, so that's really, I'm glad we're talking about this because I think there's a mentality out there that more is better, so if lifting heavy things is good, I should lift it all the time and strain my body and stress my body, but the people that I've seen that exercise the most, like my clients that have exercised the most, they're the ones that I'm seeing with high sex hormone binding globulin and low testosterone. So can you talk a little bit about sex hormone binding globulin, if I can say that word right? I think that is the body's defense against estrogen. When it's high, a woman has a lower risk of breast cancer because it keeps the estrogen out of cells. It actually tends to pull estrogen out of cells protectively. When it's... high in response, depending against estrogen, it can also interfere with testosterone effect. So you mentioned a little bit of how cortisol and estrogen are related, but there's another kind of player in all of this, too, that we should talk about, which is adrenaline. Like, are they all intertwined together as far as adrenaline and cortisol and estrogen too? Yeah, all of the stress hormones interfere with the conversion of T4... And in fact, instead of making the effective respiration promoting T3, they convert thyroxine into rain. First C3, they dispose of the precursor and turn it into... an interfering, inactive suppressor of respiration. And those same stress hormones that produce the inactive blocking reverse C3 also tend to suppress the pituitary TSH, making it look like you're inactive. hyperthyroid because doctors are taught to diagnose hyperthyroidism in terms of abnormally low TSH but in fact the stress which is lowering most people's TSH is causing hyperthyroidism. the hypothyroidism and is caused by hypothyroidism. So a low thyroid person raises their estrogen, cortisol, and adrenaline. And these add up to lower your TSH and make it look like you have too much thyroid according to the way doctors are being indoctrinated. And so that would be why so many people go to the doctor and say well you're actually you have too much thyroid going on but yet the person is exhibiting all the signs of low thyroid such as weight gain and hair loss and energy loss but yet the doctors seeing it's on the other end right? I don't know what the real power for this is, but the indoctrination has become more intense in just the last two or three years, telling doctors, don't look at T3, even just look at TSH. Don't worry, even if the TSH is as high as 10, which is dangerous, it's horribly toxic, TSH itself. is an inflammation-promoting hormone. Even if a person isn't hypothyroid in the sense of not having enough C3, if their TSH is increased, they will get the worst heart disease signs of hypothyroidism. So part of the disease effects of hypothyroidism... hypothyroidism are really an excess of TSH rather than the direct lack of metabolic stimulation from T3. Yeah, and I definitely want to do a whole podcast on thyroid with you because I think that's so fascinating with regard to how stress affects the thyroid and then, conversely, how the thyroid affects everything else. But as far as talking about... weight gain, like, I don't think people understand the importance of women having testosterone, the right adequate testosterone. I think we always think of it as a male hormone, but women really need testosterone as well. And what I see is with low testosterone in women, they do have this additional weight gain, which I'm assuming is because conversely, they're also experiencing high estrogen. But can you talk about the importance of a good amount of testosterone for women and not just men? It has to be balanced, both in men and women, it has to be balanced with DHEA and cortisol and normally it is unless you're supplementing it as a drug, but all of these, especially the DHEA is an activator of fat oxidizing. and your muscle is the organ that is most equipped for oxidizing fat. your brain and heart don't do well oxidizing fat compared to glucose but the muscles are perfectly adapted for burning fat and everything you do to increase your muscles Production of testosterone and reduction of cortisol is favoring that. So just the right amount of exercise to build muscle will shift your metabolism to safely consume fat in your muscles. while leaving adequate glucose for your brain and certain delinquent and so like weight gain is probably one of the symptoms of low testosterone could you talk some other symptoms that people might see if cortisol is high and testosterone is low depression the whole stress system that ends up increasing your cortisol and decreasing DHEA progesterone testosterone, that whole system is related to the inflammatory and degenerative processes and depression is how we experience that process. The body senses... is being destroyed by the stress hormones and it wants to stop everything, to sort of hibernate or go into hiding until the stress is over so what you experience is depression. Anxiety and aggression. Aggression comes up when you're being over-stressed and made to anxiety. It's all different sides of the same reaction, but when your body is being damaged, you get these negative emotions. Aggression, anxiety, and depression. That makes a lot of sense because that's what I'm seeing in the people that have those. Those lower, you know, like you mentioned testosterone, D-A-T-A, and progesterone, and then higher cortisol, so that makes complete sense. As far as like the, like you'll hear a lot of people that in order to regulate their hormones, they're being taught like with YouTube education, I call it. And of course I'm on YouTube too, but I'm trying to interview people like yourself that actually have valid information and valid science behind it. But, um, they, you hear a lot about fasting and intermittent fasting as a way of improving hormones and cortisol and I don't buy into that. And I wanted to get your opinion. Do you see fasting as a way to improve hormones and lower, lower cortisol or is it actually contributing to the stress response in the body? Glucose in the form of glycogen and you can go, if you're healthy, you can go up to 24 hours on your short glycogen and the body senses stress. Lowering the T3 slows the rate of fuel use, so when your glycogen has gone away, that means you have to start using your tissue to make glucose out of your muscles. and if your thyroid didn't slow down when you have this prolonged stress or fasting situation, if your thyroid didn't drastically shut down your oxygen requirement. You would eat your whole body up in just a few days, but since the depressive process turns off the metabolism, it makes you want to eat more. to hibernate. That slows the rate of degeneration of all of your organs. If you at least give a little bit of glucose and minerals, just some sodium chloride, then you're good to chloride and calcium, magnesium, and potassium during the fasting or low calorie period, you can greatly reduce your tissue loss. on a low-calorie diet. For example, a person on just a water fast for 10 days, they found that I think it was 80% or more of their weight loss came from destruction of their muscle and skin mass. But if they had a 500 or 600-calorie diet with a 100-calorie diet with a 100-calorie adequate minerals. Almost all of the fat weight loss was in the form of fat loss rather than muscle. So a complete fast is very destructive to the body. Yeah, and it's good to hear you say that because there's a lot of misinformation out there about it. So I hope people will do their own research too and look into some things about fasting before they attempt it. Because really, fasting in a nature sense, if we were out fasting, that would mean we didn't find food. So it would be a stress response to the body, right? Yeah. Some of the professors when I taught at the naturopathic school were advocates of fasting and they talked about detoxifying by fasting. But that got me interested in what really happens. The liver is the organ of detoxification and when you're depriving the liver of sugar and exposing it to cortisol, not only does the estrogen rise, but it loses its ability to detoxify other things. And the reason the estrogen rises is that the cell facials, the cell facials, the cell and glucuronidation detoxifying systems are shut down by fasting and so it's exactly the opposite of detoxifying. In Mexico I've been exposed to a type of insecticide disinfectant. but they used on buses and motels for a while and it had a particular odor to it that was recognizable. When I realized I was being poisoned by inhaling the fumes of this in public places, I decided to leave and as I was driving home across the desert, every time I got hungry, I would smell this insect. besides a cleansing material in my exhaled breath and for about two months after that every time I would have low blood sugar, three o'clock in the morning I would wake up and smelling on my exhaled breath this pine-sall insecticide odor and as soon as that odor stopped, I had...leaving my body when I got hungry. Then I went into a hyperthyroid state. So it had been suppressing my thyroid and I was exposing myself to it anew every time I would... I lowered my blood sugar by mobilizing fat, and so that was disturbing my liver function and thyroid and so on. When you're hungry and starving, you're living on your body tissues, including fat. So your muscle and that can Realize the toxins that had been fairly safely stored away In animals They were careful to make sure that the animals hadn't been exposed to Insecticides or herbicides or whatever for 24 hours before slaughtering them and They sampled the various tissues But the fat at the slaughterhouse was found to be full of whatever insecticide they had been exposed to, but the liver was the cleanest organ. After 24 hours, it had cleaned itself up and had the lowest concentration of all of the poisons. The meat had the next highest concentration, and the blood... lower because it was constantly being detoxified by the liver so fast is a way to maybe clean up your liver but definitely is not good for your brain and immune system. Yes, and the liver, as far as I'm understanding, is also important for things like testosterone, too. So you really want good liver production and detoxification just for the production of testosterone, right? Yeah. In the case of progesterone, which in a woman is produced. Even in greater quantities than a man produces testosterone, during the premenstrual time, the daily progesterone production is maybe 30 milligrams a day. But the liver adapts to that very large production after two weeks of that high production. the enzymes increase and start excreting progesterone as well as estrogen and testosterone so The synthesis of new progesterone stops, and for two weeks, the liver has......very low exposure to progesterone, meaning that it will have a chance to reset its detoxifying enzymes to zero so that at ovulation it's all ready to let your body experience the full force of the progesterone. If a man is supplementing testosterone... Every day, if he exceeds the liver's normal preference for a level of testosterone, the same thing happens. If he takes 30 milligrams by injection, for example, the liver experiences the same thing that women's liver experiences with high levels of testosterone, and the man... Throws off the testosterone very quickly so after a week or two of being exposed to high testosterone He is now excreting it very fast and probably is getting about as much estrogen effect as testosterone effect and medical use of testosterone that they sometimes give 50 or 100% milligrams at once so their liver experiences this gigantic overdose where it should be four or five milligrams. Today in the young man, the liver goes into a testosterone destroying condition. So, with regard to things like, since we're talking different diseases and stuff too, and with regard to the liver, I wanted to get your thoughts on cancer and how high cortisol can play into that. My mom actually died of stomach cancer at 45, and she lived a very, very stressful existence, both physically, she was like an over-exerciser, she was emotionally stressed, mentally stressed from work, and hardly slept. And she also starved herself quite frequently to achieve a body shape that she was looking for. And I'm convinced the stress is what killed her, but how, in your opinion, does chronically elevated cortisol, and how is it related to things such as cancer? The low behind the rise of estrogen and cortisol and the fall of thyroid is the tissue. ute level of stress. And in the alimary canal histamine and serotonin are massively produced. 95 percent of our serotonin in the body comes from the intestine. And stomach ulcers can just by an excessive serotonin, and the intestine is involved in all stress, but especially in prolonged, ultimately carcinogenic stresses, and as the histamine and serotonin increase in the digestive system, that allows endotoxin and nitridoxin. to rise. All of those interfere with our ability to produce respiratory energy shift over to the esophagus. And lactic acid activates the stress hormones and promotes inflammation. and lactic acid is carcinogenic in itself. It not only is produced by cancer, but it promotes all of the features of cancer, inflammation, accelerated cell division, and so on. The serotonin is one of the most powerful. Activators of the cortisol stress hormone system and it acts powerfully on the part of the hypothalamus that makes the CRH, corticotropin release hormone and that is produced not only in the brain but in all of the peripheral tissues and it's a promoter of tissue inflammation and shift of metabolism. So, stomach cancer and intestinal cancer are very deeply involved with excess serotonin It's really a base activator of the whole stress system. It works directly on the pituitary, as well as on the brain and other tissues, and it Accidentally, other tissues besides the adrenals are potential cortisol producers. Even our skin can make cortisol when it's under stress. So, she had some pretty intense habits that led to a stress response such as, you know, sleeping maybe two or three hours a night, burning the candles at both ends, she was an over-thinker, over-analyzer, over-exerciser. Are there like certain habits, not just foods, but certain things people are doing, like just over-achievers in life, people doing too much that are also creating this stress response in the body that can contribute to that loss of all those important hormones? Yeah. Yeah, regular sleep is a powerfully protective thing. It should be somewhere in the range of six to nine hours every night. but the regularity is very important. It becomes a built-in, almost a machine-like, once you get a schedule set, and any variation of that schedule puts the whole thing together. 24-hour cycle into a stress pattern, so it isn't just the number of hours, but the regularity with which you get those hours of sleep that is anti-stress, and high progesterone, testosterone, and DHEA are promoters of... working sleep. Cortisol really interferes at all levels. Sleep restoration as well as daytime maintenance and prolonged starvation, for example. Anorexia nervosa, usually it's young women, and they've given... Made MRI pictures of their brain during and then during the recovery and during the anorexia, their brain, especially the frontal lobes, shrink and then when they feed, it rebuilds itself so it's actually causing brain damage to pass too much and a stressful pregnancy with too much exposure to estrogen and dissociated cortisol does the same thing where androgens, DHEA and testosterone and protestron protect the athlete, the brain. Heart and lungs are protected by those but prolonged exposure to high estrogen even in pregnancy or anorexia will shrink the frontal lobes of the brain. that handle long range perspective. But I liked what you said about it can be rebuilt. I think people aren't aware that even if you've had a really strong cortisol response for a long time, you've been in a stress response for a long time, that if we can do things to mitigate that, we can actually get our body back into a calm state. There is a way to do that. And it doesn't have to do with taking ashwagandha and all these things. A really safe way to do it. So can you talk about that? Can you talk about how we can rebuild? It's very much like exercise, but you have to stop the stress first before you can exercise effectively. Because they know that a given activity, for example, taxi drivers have a bigger part of the brain that handles memory. They know every street in a big city and that requires a bigger part of that brain. One of my first students at the Nature Pathic College was a taxi driver who I decided to study medicine and she was just spectacular. She was able to put things together unlike the students who had just gone to college. She had this global ability to perceive. how things interact, and that kind of exercise works. It's best if you maintain the protective hormones, even supplementing Pregnanolone, Protestorone, DHEA, and Testosterone, combined with the kind of mental activity that you want to develop that will, in a relatively short time, rebuild and it changes your attitude. Learned helplessness, for example, from prolonged stress can be overcome. Yeah, I've heard you talk about learned helplessness. Can you expand on that a little bit for my listeners? Yeah, that can be repaired with any of these protective hormones or with behavioral insight. But the stress process that causes... is used to become helpless or obsessive or over-analytic or whatever. Stopping the stress is the first thing, and that requires good nutrition. And good nutrition should include plenty of carbohydrates. hydrate so that you don't have to rely on the cortisol to convert. protein amino acids into glucose, and usually something more than 100 grams. per day of carbohydrate, preferably in the form of sucrose, but it can be, if you're very active physically, two or three hundred grams a day of carbohydrate, especially sugar, can be restorative to the brain. I'm so glad you brought this up because one of my next things was to talk about the dangers of sugarless diet. I think people are all about, talk about the dangers of how dangerous sugar is, but you actually talk about the dangers of a sugarless diet and how our body runs on glucose and therefore if you don't take it in, your body will simply make it from its own bodily tissues such as breaking down muscle like you were talking about before. I think we don't know the dangers of going sugarless. Actually, we know too much about eating sugar, but not enough about how much we actually do need to eat it. All of the things that trigger the stress hormones involve interference with glucose metabolism. Hypoglycemia itself is a powerful activator of the stress system. Excess of free fatty acids, which will block the ability to use glucose, will activate the stress hormones. Lactic acid, which results when you're not using your glucose. Properly, it's a sign that there's a In effect a deficiency of glucose that activates cortisol production all of these stress signs, inflammation, over exertion These require more glucose to suppress inflammation to get energy production going. So the obvious way to stop the stress reaction is to provide enough glucose and oxygen along with the other nutrients. If you provide only protein and fat as your bulk nutrients at your... going to increase your cortisol just to convert the protein to the amount of glucose that your brain and blood cells need and that cortisol even though it's being fed with protein is going to have all of these indirect actions that are harmful in the long run. It's going to change the way your immune system works for example. Yeah, and so as far as the glucose in your diet, we know from listening to you that's important so that's why on the last podcast we talked about how ketogenic and low-carb diets are actually causing some of the stress response as opposed to helping with cortisol. So are there certain foods, I mean I know you've mentioned sugar in different forms like fructose and sucrose, but are there different foods that can actually help lower cortisol?...and increase things like progesterone and testosterone? Yeah, the reason I talk so much about milk and orange juice is that they are the most available foods that have the most components that tend to shut down excess cortisol production, lower adrenaline, reduce serotonin, nitric oxide, all of the harmful mediators of inflammation and stress. Everyone can... Uh, we, we have some work and... Good milk and sweet orange juice those each of them has hundreds of beneficial factors the calcium itself in milk and the minerals potassium and the other minerals in orange juice Lower these stress factors in multiple ways Most people are having a Borderline calcium and vitamin D deficiency in most of the world and when you're borderline in vitamin D and calcium, you increase your parathyroid hormone. If you're borderline in your mineral, especially sodium intake, your aldosterone and antitensin increase. These parathyroid hormone and aldosterone interact very closely and turn off your energy production, shift you over to wasting sugar, increasing your cortisol, destroying your protein issues. So getting your aldosterone and parathyroid hormone. As low as you can will at the same time increase your metabolic efficiency and so reduce your exposure to the stress hormones. That's great information. So I'm also assuming that foods that help with thyroid production would also lower a stress response in the body and therefore help with hormone production too? Yeah, and people are being misinformed about what thyroid does. It isn't. A stimulant and the catabolic hormone. It is anabolic and the anabolic function goes with what should be a reduction of adrenaline and cortisol so it is required for deep restorative sleep and relaxation so doctors tell people that it's a stimulant and the catabolic are exactly the opposite of the truth. So what foods, as far as your favorite foods, are pro-thyroid that would help lower that stress response? Avoiding the polyunsaturated fats is a universal benefit as far as possible. Not to add, for example, fish oil or algae oil to your diet, not to use safflower, canola oil, none of the liquid oils. Those are all anti-thyroid, anti-progesterone. Anti-DHA and so on and in effect they increase your stress hormones. They're the precursors for the prostaglandin like materials which Amplify all of the inflammatory... or in stress reactions so just cutting out the polyunsaturated fats if she increases your thyroid function and lowers the stress hormones. So therefore that leaves us with saturated fats, which I would assume are pretty good at helping to lower cortisol as well. Do they help increase progesterone and testosterone? I guess the main goal is to lower the cortisol so that those particular hormones will rise, correct? When you are not eating the proof of polyunsaturated fats, if you eat extra calories, you produce the saturated fats. And so your tissues will gradually, over a period of several years, gradually become more saturated. If you look at the ratio of saturated fat to polyunsaturated in your tissues, the saturation index corresponds to lifespan of animals with the highest saturation index. The lowest polyunsaturated fat in their tissues have the longest life expectancy. A lot of that is related to thyroid and these protective steroids. Wow, so I'm assuming that you're pretty saturated then for being 82 and you are just the epitome of health and so I assume based on your diet, you're pretty saturated then, huh? I hope so. I don't eat a completely ideal diet. It takes a lab to prepare food to get rid of all of the toxic fats. In the 1930s, the lab intended to demonstrate that muscles are not supposed to eat oil. Taking out all of the fat would cause a deficiency of the essential fatty acids, but this guy had had lifelong headaches and blood pressure problems after, I think it was... Three or four months on this fat-free diet, he stopped having his headaches and his blood pressure normalized, and as long as there was any information about him, his blood pressure After that diet, he never had a recurrence of his health problems, so far from producing deficiency diseases. This extreme laboratory-defined, fat-free diet cured this lifelong health problem. Wow, that's incredible. So there is some validity to watching your fat intake and making sure that you have good glucose intake. And so where does protein fit into all this? What are your favorite sources of protein for lowering cortisol and increasing those hormones we've been talking about, like progesterone and testosterone and DHEA? A gelatin happens to be fairly close to an ideal protein for an adult. Milk protein has a fair amount of tryptophan, cysteine, and... These are pro-inflammatory amino acids that are used in milk. It is ideal for growing and has anti-inflammatory, anti-stress factors, but for an adult I think it should be supplemented. We have something like gelatin as an extra protein. lacks the pro-inflammatory growth related to amino acids. So that's interesting. So you could almost do like a blend your morning coffee with a little collagen gelatin and some milk and make almost like a little protein smoothie that way with a little coffee, huh? Yeah, I use about eight or nine ounces of milk with an ounce or two of extremely concentrated coffee for my breakfast. You sound like an espresso lover. That sounds like a concentrated coffee that's an espresso, and that's what I love, too. Yeah, you don't get an excess of water that way. Yes, that's true. Well, Dr. Pete, I could go on and on and on, but I know that you are getting ready to work on your next newsletter, and so I want to touch on that a little bit. I want to let people know that they can actually sign up for your newsletter, which is amazing, and they can sign up. To receive it through the mail or also through email, and it's $28, I believe, for email, the newsletter, and then it's 30, is it $38 to get it through the mail? Yeah, and that's for 12 issues bi-monthly, so it's for two years, 12 issues. Yeah, and they can do that by emailing raypetesnewsletter at gmail.com, and I'll have all that information in the show notes as well. And I also want to encourage you guys to go check out all of his articles at raypete.com, because that's where you're really going to get just a cornucopia of information that will just blow your socks off. So, Dr. Pete, I just so appreciate your time. I love, love, love talking with you, and sorry we had a little connection issues today, but I really will take any part of you that I can get, so I appreciate your time today. Okay, thank you. Stay tuned for more. Hopefully, next time we can talk about the thyroid a little bit more, Dr. Pete, if that's okay with you. Okay. Okay, sounds good. Thanks, everybody, for listening. Bye for now.