 Well, here we go. It would be the third Tuesday, and that would bring us to a time when we're grateful to have a lovely and talented Dr. Ray Pete on the air on the third Tuesday, and as long as the creaks don't rise, he said, we'll do it. He's a PhD, University of Oregon, specialization in physiology. Started working with hormones back in 68. Well, that's when I started radio. In 68, in Armed Forces Radio, he was starting his work on hormones. Wrote his dissertation in 72. He's got a great newsletter that comes out a couple times a month. You have a little link there on the show pages. You can get Dr. Pete's newsletter. It's great to talk to him from time to time. If you have an email for him, question Patrick at oneradionetwork.com. Now to the LUT Coast. Dr. Pete, good morning. Good morning. How are you doing there? Very good. It has started raining. Winter weather setting in already. You're in Oregon, right? Yeah. You get a lot of rain there? Yeah. The weather has been pretty variable, but we're back to the old continuous rain it looks like. The ocean is warming up and when that happens we get extra rain, humid air condenses. I saw the... Oh, go ahead, go ahead. The nighttime rain is the traditional northwest weather, but we've been changing over the last 30 or 40 years until... It looked more like a midwest climate, summer rain and drier winters, but I think we're back to the old rain in the winter, night and winter. I saw with the farmers albanac they use sunspots and they're predicting a cold and woolly winter this year for a lot of the country, we'll see how accurate that is. Yeah, I think the sun and this... submarine volcanoes are really the important thing changing the weather over the long term rather than carbon dioxide. Yeah, submarine volcanoes? Yeah, the Pacific is really pretty full of volcanoes that actually are warming the ocean and they have cycles like sunspot cycles. Oh. So they put out a lot of heat down there and they're going on and we don't really know they're spitting up. Yeah, and they're teeming with life, primitive life forms that can live at extremely high temperatures. And so the ocean's warm and that causes all kinds of things to happen in the jet stream and weather changes more dramatically. Yeah, it changes the ocean's currents. It's hard to imagine that carbon dioxide is like the devil. I mean, don't we want to keep more carbon dioxide in us by not breathing so fast? Yeah, one of the anti-climate change people ouch, ouch, ouch. Gets up on the box and lectures in London. He has a little sign that says, carbon dioxide is the gas of life. Many people believe that. Gosh, how could you make it so, I don't know, so political stuff, who knows, right, what's going on with all that. Well, Dr. Ray Peet is probably one of the few well-known people, well-credentialed people, that... It's got milk, you know, it's got that little white mustache thing, and you've been drinking milk for a long time now, and you do good with it. Yeah, there were times, like when I was living in Mexico City, when it was hard to get good milk. The rich people would send their maids out at dawn to buy up all of the good milk, and so for three or four years I went very light on... on milk, but the rest of my life I've been a big milk drinker, gallon, gallon a day. You're still doing that much, a gallon a day? No, about two and a half quarts, I think, averaging now. We had an Ayurvedic doctor on a couple weeks ago, and she's a... Ayurveda, as you know, you probably do know, they've been a great proponent of drinking milk for a long time, thousands of years, right? I want to read you something out of her book, I think you'll find it fun. Her name is Marianne Tittlebaum, she's at DC, but we found her very, very just, I don't know, very credible. She says dairy is perhaps the most misunderstood of all food groups. The ancient doctors said that every food you eat spends three to five days in each tissue before progressing to the next. There are, as discussed earlier, seven tissues, blood plasma, blood muscle, fat bone, bone marrow and reproductive fluids. This means that the food you eat today can sometimes won't nourish everything, all seven tissues, for about a month or so. The only exception to the rule is milk. It nourishes all seven tissues in one day. This milk is seen as one of the most nourishing foods of all life. This is why babies can live exclusively off milk....for the first year of their life. Do you think that's accurate with going through all the tissues like that in one day? I think some of that is historical metaphor, but there is some basis to it. It's now known that every tissue has its rate of protein turnover and as your nutrients change, the food you eat changes. It guides the turnover of the proteins so that you get proteins suitable for the type of food you're eating and every tissue like bone is extremely slow to turn over most of its substance. Your liver is very fast, the skin and intestine are extremely fast, just a few days and they're completely remade. The heart has a slower rate of protein turnover but everything in the mitochondria, the energy producing apparatus is turning over constantly at its own rate and I think in general the faster a tissue turns over because it's kept warm and well nourished and unstressed, high stress will make you turn over your thymus gland and muscles and skin very fast but in a destructive way but a good warm well-fed condition you do have a constant turnover and renewal of your tissues it's like a streaming new cells are being born as the old ones are being eaten up and so you clean out the debris at a regular pace according to the tissue. Interesting. I agree with you. I think that it's been my experience in the old Ayurvedic texts, which obviously is where this came from, they began at some point, they often got off often very poetic, right? And very, you know, beautiful words and they sometimes would expound a bit or maybe say exaggerate a bit on the benefits of stuff. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, historically, I think you nailed that. Not to say it's not true, but they are very poetic and philosophical and spiritual about approaching different things. And I know one thing that I read years ago, they're big fans of ghee rather than butter. And I read one book where this fellow said, this sage, well, if you have 100-year-old ghee, it'll cure anything. You know, that kind of thing. They would make these kinds of statements. So I think your point is well taken about... the historical, but fascinating. Now, she's a big fan, and Ayurveda has always been a big fan of, not a big fan, but actually saying this is the best way, is to boil the milk. Boil the milk for several reasons. I think it helps with the fat absorption, and also if you have raw milk, maybe gets rid of any little buggies. And they put cardamom and cinnamon in there to help do some things that... I'll find it in here. What about you? Do you think have you found any benefit in the boiling milk? Have you ever done that? Oh, sure. Living outside of Mexico City where they have cows or goats that's the custom. Everyone puts a big pot of milk on in the morning and brings it to a boil and that Usually they skim off the fat that rises and make special dishes out of that or else feed it to the cats and chickens. I wonder why you would do that? Wouldn't that fat be good? Yeah, if a person likes it, they have dishes and puddings and things that they make out of it, they use it as a sauce on tacos and such. Now would there be any benefit to our listeners who can't have access to raw cows or goats milk? To boil like an organic grass-fed milk that you get at the Whole Foods or something? Yeah, surprisingly the damage nutritionally is very small. It oxidizes some of the vitamin A and a tiny bit of the vitamin C. Milk is still basically the best source of all of the nutrients when you compare it to the number of calories and protein. You know, it has all of the nutrients except iron. How about the cardamom and cinnamon thing? Any thoughts on that? Oh, each has its medical uses. I haven't been a big fan of them. Mexicans put cinnamon on their chocolate drinks generally. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What about this A1 and A2 milk that's been going around for years and theoretically the A2 milk I guess is supposed to be the most easily digestible. What is that from the maybe the Jerseys or the Holsteins, no A1 is found in the Holsteins and then A2 is more in the Jerseys or the Guernseys. When I was little we had a Holstein and then when I was about eight years old. Nine we got a Jersey which we had for 10 or 15 years and I don't really see any difference and I think a lot of it is just marketing to sell something for a higher higher price if you have the right kind of cow. And Ayurveda says that the goat's milk is good it's an excellent source but it's just a little bit higher choice. For cow's milk, that's interesting. Do you agree with that? Or do you know? Do you have a theory or opinion? My own preference is for cow's milk just because I'm more familiar with that. When I was in the first or second grade we had a whole scene and the neighbors had goats and their goat milk was very strong smelling. Learned to prefer cow's milk, but if you handle the goats right, the goat milk will taste as good as cow's milk. So you say you drink still a couple quarts a day. You find that's a lot of food for you and that provides a lot of your nutrition? Yeah, milk has always, the last 40 years, has been the bulk of my daily food. When I would drink a gallon a day, I would maybe have a couple of quarts of orange juice and some cheese or a sardines or something for a supper snack, and eggs for breakfast. And that keeps you going, that will keep you going without losing, you know, keep your muscles going. Oh, sure, yeah. How about you now, let's see, if I recall, your... Revolutions Around the Sun, which is all called Age, you are 80, 83? Yeah, I'm both in October 83. 83 in October, yeah, I'm going to be 73 revolutions in November, we're about 10 years apart. Have you, what has been your experience, I know you paint, do you have to do other things? Have you found to keep your muscles from, what's that word they use for it, they always have a word doc? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Sarcopenia. Sarcopenia, yeah. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, I noticed after about 10 years of just sitting around studying, my shoulders got less rounded muscles. I could see in photographs that my shoulder muscles were smaller because I wasn't working. But just moving around, my leg muscles have stayed huge after not going skiing, for example, for 10 years. Someone told me that my leg muscles must be getting weak from just sitting around reading all the time. But I tested myself doing one-legged sit-ups. Every ten years I would do ten one-legged sit-ups and didn't notice a significant dropping off with time. I haven't done it for fifteen years though, I don't know if I could still do ten. Did you do any other kind of exercise regularly? No, just every ten years I would test myself. How often do you exercise? Oh, every ten years, I knew. That's great, that's great. So you like orange juice, huh? Do you still like orange juice? Oh yeah, when good stuff is available. It should be thoroughly ripened. The commercial stuff, they are used to selling unripe oranges and so if they accidentally get ripe oranges they end acidic acid to it. A lot of the, for example, the concentrated or canned varieties very often have acid added, but the acid etches the enamel off your teeth, so ripe branches are safer in every way. So you would want to rinse out your mouth with clear water after orange juice? Yeah, clear water, maybe even baking soda if it's very acidic. What do you think about taking baking soda regularly? Some people advocate that a quarter teaspoon or so. Do you think there's any value to that? Yeah, I know people who do as much as a teaspoon two or three times a day and think it improves their endurance and strength. But even of a fourth of a teaspoon two or three times a day, people......to say that it helps reduce inflammation. And I know people who used to get swollen legs when taking a long airplane trip. And when they took a teaspoon of baking soda in water before getting on the plane, they stopped having the swollen feet. Well, what's going on there to you? Do you have some eyes what you think metabolically is happening with the baking soda, sodium bicarbonate? Yes, the sodium lowers your aldosterone very quickly and aldosterone is a general stress hormone that tends to go up with cortisol which damages tissues but aldosterone causes a shift towards inflammation and fibrosis. A chronic elevation of aldosterone leads to heart disease and circulatory disease and kidney disease. So chronic intake of a little extra sodium such as you get with that small doses of baking soda that has a chronic anti-stress effect keeping your aldosterone lower and that lets you lose the sodium fairly quickly. And the bicarbonate part is quickly changed there's an enzyme carbonic anhydrase that changes carbon dioxide to bicarbonate and bicarbonate back into carbon dioxide and at the surface of your cell when you're losing the sodium through your kidneys your cells change bicarbonate into carbon dioxide which is more soluble in the living cell so it goes out of your blood more or less at the same rate that the sodium is leaving your blood bicarbonate into your cells sodium out of your body so what it amounts to is the same as breathing a little extra carbon dioxide or failing to hyperventilate and low thyroid people hyperventilate and blow away the carbon dioxide they should be keeping in their cells and so the supplement of baking soda is imitating to a degree the normal thyroid function keeping your cells more charged with carbon dioxide which is a stabilizing thing that has tremendous ramifications everywhere it uh... when you are at a high altitude there's less oxygen and the oxygen normally is in your lungs it exchanges with carbon dioxide and so at sea level high oxygen pressure pushes more carbon dioxide out of your blood at a high altitude the lower oxygen tension allows you to retain more carbon dioxide and people have less dementia heart disease and cancer at very high altitudes and live longer and that's very likely mostly the effect of retaining the proper amount of carbon dioxide and so if you at moderate altitude if you're breathing more carbon dioxide like adding a supplement. It can be with baking soda that extra carbon dioxide is to some degree imitating a high altitude or a better thyroid functioning. Fascinating. So the low thyroid folks, do they tend to breathe more, have more breaths per minute and then have less carbon dioxide which we know is good, is that right? Yeah. Well, relative to how much oxygen they need because the oxygen requirement is very low in a low thyroid person so they don't need to move very much air. A quart of oxygen will last a low thyroid person maybe minutes where they can't move. A high thyroid person would be gone in seconds. I've seen it in labs where we were practicing doing the basal metabolic rate test by rate of consuming oxygen. For example, the typical old-fashioned machine contains two liters of oxygen. And I didn't know that I was hyperthyroid. I didn't have any signs of hyperthyroidism, but in the standard test, I emptied the machine in half the allotted time. So the tracing on the graph paper was almost a vertical line where it was supposed to be about a... a 45 degree angle to the right and according to the standards, I was about four times the normal oxygen-consuming rate, which a doctor would say, oh, that's dangerous hyperthyroidism, but I was fine, no health problems at all. Very interesting. Do you? Do you put much stock in taking the temperature to gauge thyroid function? Yeah, when you're producing energy at a high rate, say 150% of the average, you're maintaining your blood sugar level. Because you're using the sugar efficiently, not wasting any. The hypothyroid person wastes sugar at a terrible rate because they aren't using oxygen properly. So if you're using sugar efficiently, that means you don't experience hypoglycemia. And so you don't produce very much adrenaline to regulate your blood sugar. And so you're... adrenaline level is low. Your stress level is low and everything metabolically is running efficiently. You're turning over your proteins, but in a renewal way rather than a stress produced way. Here's an email from Beth about thyroid, so I thought I'd throw it right in there. Dr. Ray P, do you think... Chloride in chloride in a tap water and bromide in breads are having a major effect on our thyroids. Yeah, I didn't know they were still putting bromide in bread. I don't think they are, generally, but maybe this lady knows. Yeah, it isn't good if it's there. It should be avoided. And fluoride, I think, I was, for a while, using... a supplement of T3, the active thyroid hormone. And when I would go to San Francisco or an area where they have fluoridated water, I would get a migraine headache. And I looked up the amount of fluoride ions in water and the amount of T3, the number of......potential sites for the fluoride to stick to. And a glass of fluorinated water is enough to knock out a day's portion of the active thyroid hormone. And since I was using that active thyroid hormone, it was very quick and very noticeable. If I drank fluoridated water, for example, in my coffee or orange juice, I would get a migraine from extreme hypothyroidism. Cynthia writes in, I take 60 milligrams, one grain, of natural thyroid every day. It seems my TSH levels are normal, one or two. My doctor likes that. Does Dr. P think that if I just keep doing this, that my thyroid will never be able to make this? What it needs to do on its own. I've seen several people who were hypothyroid, who, when they took the amount that brought their oxygen consumption up to the right level, had recovery of their own thyroid function and could stop taking it. It doesn't happen very often, but I've seen several people who... cured their low thyroid by supplementing thyroid. So explain what you mean, taking in the oxygen level. How do we know? How would you know? Well, if you're sick with low thyroid, you have a variety of symptoms. And these individuals responded to supplementing their thyroid the way... any hypothyroid person does, but in a few cases they were able to maintain their metabolic rate and stop taking the thyroid because the thyroid had restored the supplement had restored their anti-stress metabolism lowered the adrenaline and cortisol and allowed the tissues to... start metabolizing by itself and producing its own own thyroid but usually a person's body is loaded up with anti-thyroid substances polyunsaturated fats built right into the structure of the cell not only in the fat tissue but in their muscles and brain and so on especially... After the age of 20, the tissues start building polyunsaturated fats right into the structure and when you're under stress, you release some of those polyunsaturated fats into your bloodstream where they interfere with thyroid function. So the average person in their 20s or 30s or older needs to, if they're hypothyroid... that they benefit from taking a supplement for at least a few years until they can change the composition of their body. Are they better off to take the lowest possible amount when they're doing that? I mean, just to... to make it work, to help it make it work on its own? Yeah. If you happen to take too much, you'll get breathless. I've consumed too much oxygen. I've done it many times and just standing up to answer the telephone, I would start panting and had to cut back on my thyroid, but I've seen people, well, myself for example, when I was judging just by how I felt, I would supplement the thyroid and one morning I noticed I had dents. In my throat beside my Adam's apple where the thyroid gland had been about the size of my finger pressed into my throat and I realized I'd shrunk my thyroid gland so I stopped taking the quick acting T3. The next morning my neck was smooth and I've seen several people who were taking too much thyroid. And I've shrank their gland and in just one or two days it comes back massively. If one is taking some thyroid meds, as we call them, what's the role of taking supplemental iodine if you're not taking a thyroid or if you are? Um, foods such as milk and eggs always contain thyroid even though seafood is a... the known reliable source of trace minerals, selenium and iodine particularly, but since thyroid is a fertility hormone, animals can't produce eggs and milk if they're very hypothyroid. So you're assured that milk and eggs will always contain some iodine and some equivalent thyroid. So there was a study back when iodine was sometimes used as a dough conditioner instead of bromine and at that time the average American diet contained several times the ideal amount of iodine and it has been about 60 or 70 years. Since there were hypothyroid low iodine areas in the United States like the Great Lakes region was a famous greater belt but since the food technology has started using so much iodine there hasn't been any iodine deficiency zone in the U.S. and what happens if you take even twice... two or three or four times the amount needed by the body, you start interfering with the function of the gland. Often people supplement more than a milligram up to as much as 10 milligrams a day and that seriously damages the thyroid. I, every couple of months, hear from someone who has damaged their thyroid by taking... several milligrams a day of iodine. Is that a lot of milligrams? Yeah, the required amount is about a tenth to a fifth of a milligram per day. And taking a half a milligram per day, chronically looking at a big population, that's enough to increase the incidence of thyroiditis and eventually thyroid cancer. So it sounds like what I'm hearing you saying is... Some good foods, milk or eggs, and we're going to get plant... or fish, we're going to get plant... we're going to get enough? Yeah, yeah. And it's seriously dangerous in the long run to supplement too much iodine. I do really well and others have too. They've mentioned with this, you know, the salmon you can get, you know, the little thin slices. What do you call that? I guess smoked salmon and things like that. You think that's a generally good food? Yeah, it's nutritious, but you can overload on polyunsaturated fat if you eat salmon all the time. Oh, there's poofas in salmon? Oh, yeah, a lot of poofa. Really? What are they doing there? I thought that's a fish. Yeah, the cold water fish eat algae, and the algae is the source of them. Of the poofers. Yeah, so you tend to, you like to gravitate more towards a warm water fish. Yeah, as far as it's available, but a small amount. There are some low fat fish that come from pretty cold waters. Cod and sole are the lowest fat fish that I know of, and I think they're... safer than salmon if you're going to eat fish every week. Oh, really? Okay, can you stay right there? Uh, we're going to take a little break here. Patrick Timpone on RadioNetwork.com. One of the most powerful antioxidants ever is actually Brown's gas. Well, hydrogen and the machine that we have, the aquacare machine, makes Brown's gas, which is... It's kind of different than actual molecular hydrogen, Brown's gas, and that's what George's machine makes, the one that we promote. It's very quiet, and you can bubble in the water, and then breathe it, and they have a whole little setup there, which is digital. And depending on your body weight, you know exactly how much to put in there, you just dial that in. And when you do just the water, you can just dial in 100% of the Brown's gas going into the water, drink the water. Then if you're going to drink it and make water at the same time, it's fine, because you'll still make plenty of hydrogen in the water. It's just a fascinating, most abundant, just gas or thing in the universe. Hydrogen, it's just like, I think 96% of everything that's out there. And so we have a great little machine that we promote and if you use promo code ONERADIO you get a 10% and look upon it as an investment and you're out there a couple thousand bucks but this thing has got a lifetime warranty lifetime warranty and also a one year no questions asked money back if you don't like it now that's pretty cool lots of safety features that most of the hydrogen browns gas machines do not have and that's it's important because hydrogen molecular hydrogen and making browns gas it's a very uh energetic substance let me put it like that i mean you can do hydrogen cars and hydrogen whatever you know it's very it's so volatile so you got to be careful with it but your body likes it's one of the biggest antioxidants and anti-inflammatory good things are going in my body with lower inflammation i can feel it i can just feel it i don't know why i just feel more comfortable in my body after breathing this guy just it's a nice thing and here's more on it from georgie makes a machine this was previously with george wiseman about his aquacure machine making hydrogen gas and water out of the same hose listen the body accepts that gas and uses it to heal everything it's like the fountain of youth it's a astonishing the amount of ailments in fact in scientific studies and they have over a thousand scientific studies now they are showing that it either helps the body heal directly or indirectly from virtually every ailment that ails any water-based life form but it works just as well on animals and plants and lizards and birds and everybody and you're saying this because this machine called the aquacure split into five different parts six i got hydrogen oxygen electro enhanced water water vapors monatomic hydrogen what else and monatomic oxygen oh the mono oxygen and that's what your machine does it splits it yes it makes that mixture inside the machine and all that comes out a single hose the same hose gas as a gas in gaseous form yes and you breathe it or you put it in water so if you bubble the brown's gas into this water yeah into let's say distilled water it will go to a negative orp and when you drink that it actually gives your body an electrical energy this these electrons instead of sucking energy from you it gives it so you can have water that is helpful and not helpful just by the energy that's in the water you want to get one me too ours is on the way check this out lifetime warranty on the machine itself and then a one year no questions asked money back guarantee if you don't if you like the machine within a year i mean have you ever heard of a warranty like that the aquacure use promo code one radio promo code one radio for a 10 discount it's in our store on one radionetwork.com and keep in mind the idea of dehydration surely the lack of hydrogen dehydration really helps your body to become hydrated really nice machines Wayne Blakely is with us and he makes the living streams products there's two different bifidose let's talk about the the straight product that is bifido and then there's bifido too what is the bifido used for the bifido used as a probiotic nutrient which has curcumin in it and turmeric in it which has certain minerals and nutrients in it that helps the body especially absorption of your food curcumin is the most researched supplement in the world the researchers don't really understand how curcumin works in the body and curcumin is very hard to digest in the digestive tract so we predigest the curcumin which has we buy our product our curcumin from india because it has a mineral in it called yttrium and we use the bacteria to break down the yttrium the correct bacteria to break down the yttrium so our body can assimilate it so we can absorb our food correctly and it stops plaque in the body pretty cool stuff isn't it? Wayne's on it and the lack of bacteria in the soil in this country is the whole issue why yttrium is in short supply very unique products living streams he's talking about the bifido and it's in our store on one radio network.com the Ayurveda lady that was on the show we're going to have her back on Dr. Tetelbaum she was really really big on Moringa too is as a an incredible tree nutrient herb whatever you want to call it and and if you want to get a real natural way full-fledged away Wayne has a Moringa product it's in a probiotic very easy to absorb and you get a big bottle of it you can just you can drink a lot of it and bring it's pretty amazing what's going on with Moringa so fun things are all in our store If you would like to get more information, you can talk to Wayne's protege or helper, Marilyn 360-912-2981, she can give you more insights on this or that or what is good for perimenopause. Wayne is very careful. He doesn't say a lot of stuff because, oh, you know, the FDNA, they get all carried away, can't make any claims, and I understand. But Marilyn can give you some information. She doesn't do medical advice, neither do I, or nobody on our guest list ever do medical advice. It's all up to you. But anyway, these probiotics work like probiotics are supposed to. LivingStreamsOneRadioNetwork.com We talk about your health, wealth and well-being on OneRadioNetwork.com Well, it's an honor to have Dr. Ray Peet on our show. He's consented to come on on the third Tuesday and we're here. So Dr. Peet, thanks so much for coming on from time to time. People like you. You're a rock star around here. They just like you. What do you know about vasovagal, s-y-n-c-o-p-e? An emailer is talking about the vagus nerve gets activated due to stressors, the heart rate slows, blood pressure drops, blood vessels in the legs can dilate, the blood pools in the lower part flow into the brain, and......maybe nausea and things like that, and this lady Mona wants to know that what, besides the stressor, is causing the vagus nerve to react so, there has to be more to it than simply being a response to being hot, emotional, scared, when in a normal life setting. Yeah, low thyroid people tend in that direction, and I wrote some newsletters a few years ago on... on shock, and the history of shock goes back a few hundred years, but it really became a major aspect of physiology just a little over a hundred years ago, the beginning of the 20th century, when one of the pioneers was... George Washington Crile, who's a son at the Cleveland Clinic, which was founded by G.W. Crile, the first. The son was a pioneer in both thyroid therapy and breast cancer treatment. He innovated the lumpectomy rather than the horrible radical mastectomy. And he practically eliminated... Thyroid surgery went from over a thousand surgeries a year in the clinic to just about a dozen by understanding how the thyroid can be treated. But his father was the real pioneer that led to that understanding of the thyroid. And his thyroid work grew out of his surgical......experiments in which he really explained more than anyone else what shock is and how the vagus nerve governs shock. And what happens in shock is that signals are sent to all of your body cells turning off the ability to use oxygen and... The use of oxygen is what thyroid is in control of. The more thyroid you have, the more oxygen your cells can use. And within a broad range, that means that your metabolism becomes more and more efficient as you use more oxygen. So the low thyroid person is wasting their energy. But in... shock, it's even worse than hypothyroidism. It simply turns off the mechanism for burning, for using oxygen and burning any fuel. And so it imitates death, basically. When a person in shock is cut, their blood stays bright red. They aren't using... the oxygen in their blood, because the tissue is simply switched off metabolically. It's like turning off a thyroid in a nervous or electrical way rather than a chemical way. And the George Washington trial showed that stimulating the vagus nerve was... The basic signal for turning on shock Whether it was caused by loss of blood or pain or fright or whatever the signals through the vagus system were able to switch off basically the life process temporarily and that process is easier to to trigger The lower your thyroid function is you become more of a vagal Organism when your thyroid is lower But People generally if they're going to Keep functioning at all they compensate for that Exaggerated activity of the vagal nervous system by pumping out extra adrenaline, their adrenal glands become overactive and they run as much as 40 or 50 times the normal amount of adrenaline production compensating for that abnormal activity of the vagal opposing system and the parasympathetic system is the vagal system and the adrenaline system is the sympathetic nervous system. And so, surprisingly, many people are running with both sides of their autonomic nervous system running at an extremely high rate. And if something interferes with their production of adrenaline and sympathetic activity, then they drop into the vagal state and move toward shock. Feinting, for example. My goodness. Well, a lot of questions there. So this, Kyle, is that K-Y-L-E? And this work seems, it kind of feels like this is long ago? I didn't understand the question. Kyle, this work with G.W. Kyle, was this long ago? Kyle, C-R-I-L-E. Oh, C-R, C-R-I-L, oh, Carl, okay. Carl, yeah. Long time ago. Yeah, the senior trial died I think in the 1940s and the junior died not long ago in the 90s, I think. And what did he do to lower all these surgeries that he went from thousands to a handful? What did he do? Oh, supplementing thyroid basically. Or he just gave supplemental thyroid. Yeah, things they were calling thyroid cancer, it was just a minor condition that he could turn off just by giving him a full replacement dose of thyroid. Really? Was he using TSH and all that as a metric? No, not at all. TSH measurement came in later, really, and he was measuring it enough. To realize that people developing these symptoms of thyroid cancer nodules and so on were experiencing the same condition that iodine supplementers experience with a very high TSH and so he understood that TSH was driving towards thyroiditis and eventually thyroid cancer and so he would give... usually three or four grains of armor thyroid sufficient to lower the TSH to zero and then these people without thyroidectomy or maybe just partial removal of the cancerous part would live a normal life just keeping their TSH down so that any surviving cancer cells wouldn't be......stimulated by the TSH. My goodness. Three or four grains. Now a grain is 60 milligrams. I mean, that's a lot, isn't it? Well, two grains was the average dose for just the run of the mill. Was it? A low-thyroid, middle-aged person. But sometimes, just to have good functioning, some people took three or four or even five grains, and that's how they became the Armour Company. They sold tablets of five grains, and veterinarians found that that was the right dose for cocker spaniels, and a couple of breeds of dogs needed about five grains a day, and quite a few people, they sold bottles of, I think it was 500 five grain tablets. I've seen a few people who needed more than five grains, ten or fifteen grains a day to cure their problem and then they would settle in on four or five grains a day for maintenance. My goodness, it seems like a very high dose what we hear around. So how did this Carlisle, how did he judge the dosage if he wasn't using the... labs? Oh, the basal metabolic rate was still in use through the 1940s and into the 50s then. The chemical, the first test was a blood test called protein bound iodine, came in just around the same time that... Synthroid came on the market, and it turned out 20 years later that it was an absolute meaningless thing. But at the time, I was in junior high at the time, and several of my fat friends said they had learned that they didn't have a glandular problem because the protein bound iodine showed that they had. A fully normal amount of protein bound iodine in their blood, and so they had discovered that they were just gluttonous. So they brought this med thing out right when the synthroid came out, I mean, the test. Yeah, it really was part of a marketing system. Those rascals. What they did was blame the problem on the patient rather than supplementing with armor thyroid, which was a good... reliable product. My goodness. So, back to Mona who brought up this whole vagus. So, she might have, on both ends, working overtime with the sympathetic, with the vagus and then the adrenaline, right? How would then, how do you lower all that down? Is it just looking after Mr. Thyroid? Using your temperature and pulse rate, you can come fairly close to the old oxygen consumption test. Which, that's still the ideal way to prove hypothyroidism, but you can make a very good guess by taking your temperature before you get out of bed in the morning and checking your pulse rate at the same time. If you're, lots of the low thyroid people are running on high adrenaline which rises during the night and that tends to push up the cortisol. The adrenaline sometimes will cause 90 or 100 beats per minute heart rate when you're waking up, sometimes following a nightmare. And if the cortisol goes up higher than average, it always tends to rise around dawn. But the higher your cortisol rises, the higher your waking temperature will be. The adrenaline speeds your pulse at dawn, the cortisol raises the temperature and helps to push the heart rate back down by bringing your blood sugar up. So just that one measurement can be ambiguous. High adrenaline, high cortisol, or low both of them, but if you then take your temperature and pulse rate. An hour or two after eating, the food will lower your adrenaline and the daylight and food will lower your cortisol. And very often these people who woke up seeming to have a very normal 75 beats per minute pulse rate and a 98 degree temperature. These people will sometimes drop to a 55 or 60 pulse rate. And at 96 or 97 degree temperature at 11 o'clock in the morning. And what does that tell you, if that happens? That they're super low thyroid. Ah, okay. So the Broda-Barnes thing wasn't kinda sorta right. I mean, if you had a 98, you know, according to Broda-Barnes, then you were good, but this whole adrenaline and cortisol thing, you're saying that maybe not. Yeah. In hot, humid summers in Eugene, I first started questioning Barnes' temperature measurement. He worked at Fort Collins, Colorado, where it never gets very hot and humid for very long. And I saw that people in this hot and humid weather were even very... hypothyroid people kept a normal temperature, but usually with a normal temperature they would get a slow pulse rate. So I started adding the two together, but then I saw that a very stressful night time would make both of the indicators sometimes look normal at dawn or waking, and then they would go down on... a cool mid-morning or afternoon. That's fascinating. That's very, very, very interesting. So you have mentioned before that folks, if they want to start taking a thyroid, that they start slow and do it maybe even half a grain or something for a couple of weeks. So you think that's a good idea to get the body kind of used to it. Yeah, that is a traditional way to stay on ideally a month because your adrenaline and cortisol are going to come down as the thyroid comes up. So at two weeks you might seem just right and then you start slowing down again when your adrenaline comes down towards normal. So maybe 30 grains, a half of a tab. Might be a good thing for a few weeks or a month. Yeah, and watching those measurements because it's like a sawtooth pattern. You rise to normal and then your hormones adjust and you slip back and then you increase the dose and rise to normal for a while and then if you normalize your adrenaline and lower your stress then you're......metabolism slows down again for a while. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So that's why if you do both you can kind of gauge. So what you want is after an hour after eating around 11 or so......you want...you would...the ideal would then be the more 98 temp and......and more higher pulse rate? Yeah, 80 or 85 in the middle of the day is a good pulse rate. Wow. 75 at least and 85 or 90 is okay. And the temperature, 98 to 98 and a half. So could you diagnose for Patrick here? I'm like 60 all the time, just doesn't change. I mean, it seems fine to me. For me, Doc, if I had 75, I would think I'd be like total anxiety or something. Oh no, the thyroid, one of the things it does by lowering the stress hormones, you feel......more and more relaxed and it will... Put the higher pulse rate. Yeah, but how you feel is a good indicator. You don't want to push it into the anxiety because that means you're turning on your stress. And serotonin is an additional complicating factor. The vagal system and the adrenaline system. It's one complication of interpreting thyroid function, but the serotonin also tends to go down as your thyroid comes up, and the serotonin is a promoter of hyperventilation. And so the low blood glucose, low oxygen consumption person often will have an actual hyperventilation driven by the increased serotonin, and that serotonin disturbs both your adrenal mineral regulation and your parathyroid hormone. It drives your parathyroid hormone up, and that is worse if you're low in either calcium intake or low in vitamin D. That's why I talk a lot about calcium and vitamin D in relation to thyroid. Because low thyroid means usually higher serotonin activity, hyperventilation, disturbed calcium metabolism, and dependence, need for more vitamin D. We talked a bit about dopamine last hour. How does dopamine play into the whole... What we've just talked about the last ten minutes, dopamine. It's similar to the adrenaline or sympathetic nervous opposition to the shock tendency of the vagal sympathetic system. It's the body's balancing factor for serotonin. I see. You can get too much of both of those. You get symptoms like nightmares and insomnia and water and salt regulation become a problem when those go up. So you want to keep your serotonin down and under control and then your dopamine will take care of. of keeping things in balance, usually. So on the shock idea you're talking about could be a traumatic event in someone's life. Yeah, an emotional shock will turn off your thyroid function and all of those other, the adrenals and the parathyroid system tend to get out of control. As your thyroid goes down. I wonder why though, after you get over the shock and you forgive the shocked person and all that, and spiritually and emotionally, that the thyroid wouldn't start to get its act together without the meds. I think that's because of the tissues having been slightly deranged by storing PUFA in their pants. Usually, young people... can take a big shock better than people in their 30s and 40s when their tissues are destabilized by the fat. An emotional upset will more reliably cause a chronic thyroid problem in a person in their 30s and in their teens. Dr. Ray, Pete is with us. That's my dog there, just shaking. Hi Doodle, say hi to Dr. Pete. Dr. Ray Pete is with us and you can see on the show page there where he has a bi-monthly newsletter every couple months and very, very affordable. You can click on there and sign up and get some cool stuff and help support him so he can buy paints and stuff. It's good to have a little stuff coming in here. So here's one for you. This is pretty fun. What's more effective, eating a whole orange? Drinking its juice or eating marmalade? The marmalade has the extract of the peeling which has a lot of therapeutic things. I haven't seen any real comparisons but people occasionally have advocated eating the peeling raw but that's extremely hard on the stomach. And cooking the peeling extracts some of the anti-inflammatory protective things. Naringen are major protective factors in urine peeling that you get in the marmalade. And the added sugar is an added anti-stress factor that supports your thyroid. But ideally... The juice, you can get all of those good things in the absence of good orange juice. Marmalade is kind of a medical substitute. And if you have good oranges, you wouldn't want to eat the number of oranges it takes to make a gallon of orange juice. It's fine to drink a gallon of orange juice in hot weather, but all of the fiber in an orange would probably be a burden to your digestive system. Here's a good one. Would you ask, I experience malabsorption that no matter what or how much I eat, I stay under weight. Symptoms like gnawing, ulcer type pain that flares up at night. To cause insomnia and eating iron rich foods like organ meats which were previously well tolerated, now exacerbate this pain. So, getting some pain at night, ulcer type pain at night and can't seem to gain weight. Can you gauge what might be going on for this person? My personal experience and knowing half a dozen other people, usually men. In their 20s and 30s, some individuals can eat several thousand calories a day without gaining weight. I've known people who weighed, for a normal height, weighed 130-140 pounds, very, very skinny, who were eating... 3,000 or 4,000 calories a day, and based on my own experience, when I first supplemented thyroid, I was in my late 30s, I think, suddenly I didn't need to eat so much. My calorie requirement dropped in half, simply by adding thyroid, and so I suggested that to these skinny men. Who were eating three or four thousand calories and staying very skinny. Suddenly they had the same experience. They didn't have to eat more, but suddenly they put on muscle. And that shows that thyroid is an anabolic hormone when it's in the right balance. But if it's deficient and you're running on adrenaline, your cells... know that the energy isn't being produced in the right way, it's being produced by the stress of adrenaline. So you're burning calories under the influence of adrenaline because the cells can't retain the magnesium that stabilizes the energy level of the cell. Your thyroid can be making you use the oxygen and produce the ATP and......be fairly efficient in those ways but in the absence of a certain amount of thyroid your cells lose magnesium and so they have to make the ATP again so you're making ATP at a high rate but losing because it breaks down in the absence of magnesium and supplementing magnesium for about an hour will......relax and stabilize the cells but you need a certain amount of thyroid to make the cells retain it and stay in that efficient relaxed condition and it's a matter of letting your cells relax so that they can build themselves up instead of being constantly running and stressing themselves so that's where the thyroid......is visibly a very powerful anabolic hormone. Anabolic... So that's a little color-intuitive because isn't often hypothyroidism connected with overweight? Very often but if you look at the old textbooks, at the beginning of thyroid surgery, they forgot to replace the thyroid hormone......with a powdered or squashed up animal thyroid gland and when a person's thyroid gland was removed, they went into cachexia, they looked like an advanced cancer patient, worse than sarcopenia, sarcopenia to an extreme degree, they wasted away in the absence of the thyroid hormone and that's what's happening to these......often young or middle-aged men who are just moderately hypothyroid but it's enough to move them into that cachectic or sarcopenic state of not being able to build their muscle fast enough. That's really interesting. This is from Cindy, she's in Alabama. I've been told that when a person has Hashimoto's or other autoimmune issues... They should not use natural desiccated thyroid medications such as Armour or Naso-Throid because the body will attack these because they are natural, question mark. The body supposedly does not attack the synthetic medication like Synthroid and I prefer not to use the synthetic. What is your view on this? The autoimmune so-called condition is an autoimmune condition. Excited, inefficient state, like when the cell can't retain magnesium, it stays in an excited state and if there's a hormone additionally increasing the excitation, like TSH, stimulates the thyroid gland and if it gets the nutrients it needs to make the hormone in the right balance, not too much iodine, then… the cell is energized and works, if something is lacking so it can't produce the thyroid hormone, the TSH keeps rising, stimulating it more, driving it harder, stressing it more until it is killing the cells causing thyroiditis and in a condition of inflammation, your immune system. It comes in to activate the turnover, the phagocytosis of the damaged, over excited, over stressed cells. The immune system is clearing up a damaged tissue and that has been experimentally shown several times. For example, in artificially inflamed brains in animals, they find that what they thought was autoimmune inflammation of the brain caused by a virus or some external cause was actually being remedied by the immune system. So, if they removed that so-called autoimmune antibody, the inflammation......killed the animal, the immune system antibodies directed against self, if they're properly supported, are cleaning up the damaged tissue, remedying the problem. And people have demonstrated that where you have the so-called autoimmune antithyroid, anti-globulin, anti-proxidase enzymes, specific......to the thyroid. If they supplement enough thyroid to lower the TSH, you stop producing the antibodies and the antibodies, when they finish cleaning up the damaged tissue, will gradually fade away. It takes several months of keeping the TSH low, but there have been several publications demonstrating that... the condition corrects itself after several months. Wow, man, that's pretty trippy. Oh, it's such a... That applies to things like rheumatoid arthritis and several other types of so-called autoimmune conditions. Let's see, this is from Wendy. Wondering if Dr. Pete knows anything about... Oh, the Perlsian powder that we... We promote, it's made from just pearls, if he thinks that would be a good source for calcium. Do you know anything about that product? Made from what? Pearls. Pearls. Calcium carbonate, I think, is the best supplement. Calcium carbonate. Yeah, and eggshells and oyster shells and other sea creatures' shells. But you don't have any experience with the pearl itself? Pearl, you see? Yeah, pearl. Yeah, pearl. No, no. No, you don't, yeah. Chinese medicine, all you've had to use is pearl for different things, and that's what she was asking. They're made of calcium carbonate. Oh, they are? Oh, good, so that's a good source then. Yeah. Good. Another question, well, I'm glad to hear. We thought so. Would calcium, another source of calcium would be in fish bones? She's asking, I used to eat sardines with fish bones and they seemed digestible, but now with avoiding poofers, would the bones from cod or some other source be good as calcium source for those with sensitive guts? It is a calcium source that is okay, but the trouble is that it is calcium phosphate and the phosphate has an excitatory. effect and most people are overloading on phosphates and so the bones will move in the right direction but if you're still eating a lot of meat, meat and grains and legumes for example are overloading you with phosphate and so calcium phosphate helps but it isn't as effective as calcium carbonate. I love the show, writes Cody, she's in Florida, thanks Cody. I'm interested to know, Dr. Pete, how long he sleeps each night and do you sleep uninterrupted sleep? She's asking about your sleep. It depends on how good the weather is, how good my food was and so on, but seven and a half to nine hours. It's variable. Usually I wake up during the night and have some milk and sugar or orange juice to lower the stress. Having milk at bedtime will lower several of the stress hormones. I've got in the habit of, if I wake up in the night having some sugar and milk. Or orange juice and milk and that resets the hormones so that you don't experience the same amount of stress around dawn. Yeah, what fun. So you put, say if you would have milk in the middle of the night when you wake up, would you put actual sugar in there or honey or maple syrup? What would you use? Pure white sugar is the safest. Yeah. Don't figure. Pure white sugar from Hawaii, right? Why is that the safest over... You would think honey or maple syrup is more a better choice, no? Honey is very good, but if the bees happen to eat something you're allergic to, you can have an allergic reaction to the plant substance that gets into the honey. And maple sugar is... extremely nutritious for minerals but the heating process that makes the sugar allergenic. I didn't know they heat it doctor, I thought they just kind of dump it out of the old tree. It comes out in a very liquid, slightly amber color but a very pale, thin liquid and it has to be evaporated. They use heat to evaporate it. Theoretically you could do it at room temperature with a high vacuum but it's economical to heat it. In the heating process there are small amounts of amino acids in the juice as well as minerals. And when you heat glucose with an amino acid it produces a toxic reactant. So your go-to is C&H sugar, pure cane sugar from Hawaii? Well, actually... You could probably get an organic one though, can't you? Yeah, you can, but it's so well washed. You get 99 and more percent pure sucrose. But I think beet sugar might even be better. Beet sugar? And is that white? Oh sure. They're washed. They would be brown, but they wash the molasses away and the molasses is brown partly because of the heat process reacting amino acids with glucose making a brown substance that is similar to the substance that's produced in aging reacting glucose with amino acids. But isn't, have I read or did I dream this that a lot of the beets are genetically modified now and you want to do organic or? Oh probably, but you hopefully aren't getting any proteins. The proteins are the allergenic toxic form and that's what genetic modification does is make new kinds of proteins which are toxic and allergenic. Here's one. I know that Dr. Peters recommended raw carrots, cooked mushrooms, bamboo shoots for the antibiotic properties, but that our gut bacteria can get used to these is just alternating with those enough or should one supplement with doses of antibiotics? Oh yeah, if you're having a problem with hormone. Imbalance and stress. At a fertility clinic about 35 years ago they discovered that they had the theory that infertility might be caused by germs and so they gave some women antibiotics and didn't do much for their fertility that they saw but a lot of them said that their PMS and headaches had gone away. And so they started measuring their hormones and they found that in fact it had improved their fertility balance by lowering estrogen and cortisol and increasing their progesterone. That wasn't just a fertility clinic in humans but people then tested it in animals and of course of antibiotics reliably lowered estrogen and cortisol to the stress hormones. And increased progesterone and that's the idea of the fiber. When the fiber is working it is binding and eliminating estrogen so it isn't reabsorbed and passed through the liver repeatedly. The fiber eliminates estrogen that lowers the stress so your cortisol goes down and that combination. Allows your progesterone to be retained properly. Go figure. That's really interesting. I sure like Dr. Pete's show. Thanks for having him on. On a previous show, Dr. Pete mentioned possibly placing a red light at your bedside with a timer to come on intermittently through the night to eliminate the reduce of stress caused by darkness. Could you further ask about implementing this idea and if it would be helpful or not? Maybe somebody else mentioned that I don't know if you said that. Sorry Did you did you talk about that idea of intermittent red light? Yeah, I've tried different things and it bothered me to have it come on in my face and so I made a paddle or a belt with LEDs and found that Putting it on my leg Didn't bother me so much and shining red light on your blood anywhere in your body has a de-stressing effect but have not consistently used that. I think it's adequate to have a chronic daylight continuous incandescent or sunlight during the daytime is enough to lower your stress but i think it is good to have an air ionizer running all the time especially during the night because ionized negatively ionized air activates your lungs ability to lower serotonin and and lower the stress of night what's an air ionizer what does it do i don't know if i know about that is it oh that's a negative ion generator yeah it adds electrons to the oxygen and it creates in effect a radical as far as your lung enzymes can tell it's activated metabolic oxygen more immediately accessible to destroy serotonin as it reaches your lungs and the lungs are constantly keeping your serotonin in check. When a person has a digestive problem that wakes them up at night with various symptoms including insomnia that irritation of the intestine is putting tremendous amounts of serotonin into your blood carried on the platelets depending on your lungs to inactivate it and if your estrogen happens to be high, then your lungs are relatively inactive in destroying the serotonin. Many things can make your lungs inefficient, leaving the serotonin active, causing insomnia. What do you do in a case like that in the middle of the night? What would be any kind of symptomatic relief? I have milk and sugar. Good old milk and sugar. Last month Sue, she's in Canada, she talked about how Dr. Pete talked about how protein powders except for gelatin contain some toxic amino acids. Please ask Dr. Pete whether hydrolyzed collagen powder is as effective as gelatin powder for protein and whether it has toxic effects. I know that the amino acids tryptophan, cysteine and methionine are the ones that are susceptible to toxic oxidation and gelatin just doesn't have those and so you can predigest the gelatin into the amino acids. Hydrolyzed gelatin is short peptides and some free amino acids and those... As far as I know, they're easy to digest and are no more problem than natural gelatin. So you like the Great Lakes gelatin and those kind of products as protein powders go, you like those the best? Yeah, or making your own gelatin with chicken bags, wings and eggs. Yeah, we've been doing it with the feet in a crock-pot and boy, is there a lot of gelatin in there, holy cow. Yeah, it's a lot. I mean, you put that in the fridge and it's just solid, just like solid as a rock. Yeah, that's very good protective nutrition. An adult can use a very high proportion of their protein as gelatin. A growing kid. Needs some of those potentially toxic amino acids. Tryptophan and Cysteine are needed for growth. But once you have achieved full growth, all they're needed for is things like the turnover of cells. Renewal is running at a lower rate than expansion of volume. I should mention that a fellow... Tony has put together a really nice little array of these red incandescent lights, the chicken lamps. There's five of them and they're on a board with a little switch in there. It's in our store, very well built and you can just probably set this guy on the... somewhere in your living room I guess at night or wherever you stay and just shine the red light on you and it'll be beneficial, wouldn't it Dr. Pete? It doesn't have to be all that close to you. I don't know. It penetrates very well. Red light, if you've looked at your hand against the sun, you can see red light coming through. That's because red light penetrates very well and the blue and green light is absorbed superficially. So relatively weak red light will penetrate your tissues. So the distance between these lights is not critical. No, the brighter, the quicker it works, though. Sure, sure, sure. These guys get pretty hot, so I guess you have to gauge that of how warm you want to be. Yeah. Yeah, in the winter, though, I mean, just keep warm, my boy. How important is an optimal thyroid function to consider, writes an emailer, for stomach acid production due to the high concentration of mitochondria in parallel cells where stomach acid is produced. Thyroid makes carbon dioxide and the carbon dioxide is flowing in proportion to your metabolic activity. It's the oxidizing function governed by thyroid that creates the stomach acid. So you start with carbonic acid and use that to energize the production of... Hydrochloric acid. So low thyroid would often be correlated with low stomach acid. Yeah, slow digestion. All of the digestive processes tend to slow down. But gastroparesis is supposedly a mysterious condition that is usually immediately remedied by thyroid supplements. Oh, my goodness. Oh, my God. well let's see it's time to go here let's see let's do a couple more then we'll let you go um what oh there was one here I thought was interesting hmm many Catholic monks somehow lived past a hundred when nothing but bread and water do you think their lack of movement may have conserved their carbon dioxide that's a great question Yeah, the Church, both the Orthodox Church in the Caucasus region and the Catholic Church in South America, for example, they've been keeping marriage, birth, and death records for hundreds of years, and they've documented lots of people living 130,000 years of marriage. 150 years and more in these areas. In England, they keep pretty good records going back several hundred years, and they have the record that one old guy, Old Parr, they called him, lived into his 150s, according to good documents. And he was taken to visit the king because he was... such an exceptional person. He died shortly after visiting the king and changing his diet. He said he had habitually eaten cheese and bread crusts. It was very cheap, minimal. He died after having some banquets with the king. Oh, because they eat all this rich food, the kings. Possibly. And an autopsy found that there was no disease in his body in his hundred and fifties. And in Abkhazia, in the Caucasus, and Vilcabamba in the Andes, they are well documented. Multiple cases of people in their 140s and 50s and older. And what kind of diets today get the 140? Very simple diets and those are high altitude areas where they have both sheep, goats and cows. And so they eat a good proportion of milk and cheese in their diet as well as... having the high-altitude environment that spares their carbon dioxide. And the monks and priests have usually a very simple routine diet. And I think sometimes they......might fall into just the right balance of nutrients, not too much meat, for example. Meat is a very pro-aging thing because of the low-calcium, high-phosphate content. I think the high-phosphate is probably one of the life-shortening things. Oh, there we are with the phosphate again. You don't generally think, or maybe I don't, I'm just not thinking properly about bread as being... nutritious, but I guess it depends on, in a sense, the original grain and how it's made and everything? A little bit, yeah. If it's made traditionally, letting the yeast rise gradually, keeping the grain moist, the grain thinks it's sprouting when you let it leaven naturally. The moisture activates enzymes that break down the gluten....and reduce the toxicity and make it more digestible, so it's a reliable, simple carbohydrate source and it does provide the trace minerals and if they have cheese or milk to balance that, the calcium becomes the predominant mineral, which I think has an anti-stress, life-prolonging effect. Well, that's kind of fun. You could just live on toasted cheese sandwiches and milk, you know? That'd be kind of cool. Okay, finally, what's your take? I don't know if we've ever asked you about this, about the whole gluten thing. Give us here, to kind of wrap up your opinion on what's going on with this gluten sensitivity, how it began and stuff. Partly, the seeds and grains have their... plant defense systems. Leaves, leaves contain insecticides and flavor irritants that discourage grazing from cows and insects and worms and such. And the seeds are very important for the plant survival, just like the leaves. The worst toxins tend to be put in the seeds. To block digestion and cause as much trouble for the predator of the plant as possible and polyunsaturated fats are able to inhibit digestion if they're an oily seed and the gluten, high gluten seeds, the gluten itself is able to block digestive processes and cause inflammation. There are parts of the gluten molecule that have similar effects to estrogen for creating allergic reactions in the intestine, inflammatory reactions. And if you let the enzymes activate the seed so that as far as it knows it has succeeded in becoming a plant then the intense toxins of the seed have been inactivated and you have the stem chemicals which are much less toxic than either the mature leaf or the seed so leavened bread is detoxified basically when it's soaked for about 12 hours in moisture. So is the gluten sensitivity, it's a real thing? Yeah, it's an objective thing that if your immune system is very active and stable you can adapt to it. Pass it along quickly enough without damage. Have you had an experience with some of this real ancient wheat, einkorn, the real deal? Have you ever experienced any of that? If they aren't leavened, the smaller seeds have some of the more intense toxins, same with small beans. The embryo is the larger part. The storage protein is smaller, but there are some very intense allergens in the smaller, more primitive seeds. So it's still important to make sure they're well-leavened. Oh, so the leavening, the yeast and the sourdough make it nicer for us. Yeah, less allergenic. Less allergenic, yeah. So if you were going to do some sprouts, do you do sprouts at all? Do you make any sprouts at all? Not for many years. If you were going to do some, somebody wants to know what would be your favorites to do that are most digestible is what they're asking, George. Oh, they're all vastly more digestible than the seeds, but they should be cooked. To improve their digestibility, they should be well cooked. Oh, you cook sprouts as well? Mm-hmm. Oh. The Chinese... Sure. Yeah. Either a bean or a grain, if it's fully sprouted, develops at least twice as much protein value as was in the bean or the grain itself. Right. So, you're getting an actual... protein supplement when you're sprouting. Yeah, you can... we used to do like black beans and other beans, aduki beans, and you can sprout those guys just on a towel, right? And you can see a little tail come out and then you can cook them. So it really zoops up the protein, huh? At the same time that it's reducing the allergenicity and toxicity. Wow. And you can pretty much sprout any kind of bean, can't you, Doc? Can you soak them first and sprout them? Yeah, if they haven't been sterilized. Some products in the U.S. supermarkets have been irradiated or heated or chemically treated. Do you know if they can irradiate organic? Do we know if that's a protection, being organic? I haven't heard what the latest standards are. pushing in that direction are they yeah well doc so so it's such an honor to have you on and people love you and you're just one of our most popular podcasts around here you get a lot of hits so thank you for that final question before you go what are you are you um focused on anything in particular research wise that maybe we'll talk about next month or anything that's really uh you have your has your interest um uh yeah i'm i'm trying to put together uh... uh... more uh... systematic picture of uh... how serotonin uh... fits into stress and aging uh... the uh... it probably is uh... a point where intervention to uh... reduce sickness uh... autoimmunity and age related degenerative conditions i think uh... uh... aiming towards lowering serotonin is going to be one of the most productive things uh... i see research moving in that direction contrary to the uh... the powers uh... of the pharmaceutical industry which went to still say uh... serotonin is wonderful stuff you should buy her her antidepressants but uh... there there are alternative antidepressants being demonstrated to be safer while lowering serotonin and uh... promoting health rather than degrading health so that's the research you're working just off the top too dewey did i ask you sorry if i if i did some natural ways to lower the serotonin did we did we talk about that yeah we've already covered a lot of them thyroid vitamin d oh that's calcium sugar and the things in orange juice oh good all our favorite things yeah calcium and orange juice vitamin d yeah good well dr p thanks for being here and we'll we'll see in about a month or so and maybe we'll have more to talk about serotonin dr pete's website is ray pete dot com and we'll have a link to that and also write to a place where you can sign up for a for a uh it's at every other month uh how much does your uh does your 28 dollars by email 20 years for how long i've two years that's good 12 issues good for you oh so every other month you get 12 issues for 28 dollars good job all right dr pete uh thank you uh for being here we'll see you real soon okay okay thank you yes sir bye bye