 I'm really glad and thrilled to have you with us. It's an honor to talk to you. You've been quite an inspirational force in the world of nutrition, of which both of us have been aware of your work. Tucker Goodrich has known about your work longer than myself, but I've been fascinated by the insights, the little bit that I've learned so far. Tucker, would you provide a little background for yourself? Tucker Goodrich Me? Oh, I studied... mostly humanities and arts for the first 10 years or so after I graduated from college. And just because of seeing how many things were being mismanaged in science and health, I decided to go back to graduate school and get a PhD in biology, physiology. And so I went right from literature and painting into physiology and got a PhD at the University of Oregon in 1972, and since then I've been working on related themes between brain function. That was my actual first. Interest in graduate school, but I discovered that the nerve biology and brain biology people were extremely dogmatic, and so I looked around the biology department and I found that the physiologists, and especially the reproductive physiologists, were actually scientific rather than dogmatic, and so I concentrated on that. age-related changes in fertility, in females in particular, and that turned out to be very valuable for understanding the brain, which had been my first orientation. The female hormones, actually progesterone, is a basic... stabilizing factor. It's historically considered a pregnancy hormone, but it's essential for brain function in both men and women. The concentration in the brain of progesterone is about 10 times higher than in the blood. So that has been one of my main orientations for the last almost 50 years. Looking at the implications of progesterone deficiency, and along with that, stress induces estrogen, which again isn't the female hormone as it's been advertised now for about 70 years. It's actually a stress hormone. If a man is injured, or if a woman is injured, or if a man is injured, or if a woman is injured, has a heart attack, or is very sick and old, his estrogen is going to be as high as a woman's or higher. So it's a stress and aging indicator or hormone, definitely not a fertility hormone. In the 1930s, estrogen was already identified. As a promoter of miscarriage or abortion and inflammation and cancer, despite that the estrogen industry by the early 1940s discovered that almost anything toxic turns out to have an estrogenic effect, and so it, for example, you can extract about a thousand different estrogenic substances from soot, and so the industry found a very cheap, almost so cheap you could hardly identify a cost, a substance which is estrogenic, and began selling it as the female fertility pregnancy protecting. Hormone estrogen convinced the FDA and other regulatory agencies that it was an appropriate treatment for pregnant women, aging women to prevent aging and so on. The first two hundred ailments or more that estrogen was sold. To treat all turned out to be fraudulent. But they made many billions of dollars in the process, so they changed medical schools, medical journals, the whole national consciousness to sell their fraudulent scheme or project. Well, it's good to hear that not much has changed in the last many decades. Yeah. Dr. Pete, how did you take this interest into the nutrition sphere? Oh, well, I was still working in the humanities. I started a school in Mexico called Blake College in the early 1960s, and I started seeing, for example, students who would come after work. Just couldn't learn anything, and so I started giving them a wheat germ and egg biscuit and coffee with a little vitamin B1 added, and they became good students with just a few good meals, and their brains were functioning better. And then a friend. Mentioned that his niece was dying in the hospital of intractable diarrhea, and I told him what I read in Adele Davis' book written in the late 1950s about vitamin B6, sometimes curing diarrhea. And after two or three days, he finally. Consented, he said they had given up and that she was probably going to die within a day or so. So he went over the doctor's heads and gave the kid 10 milligrams of vitamin B6. And within hours, her diarrhea had stopped and she was out of the hospital within a few days. That was one of the deciding things that made me realize how powerful nutritional therapies could be. Indeed, that sounds somewhat similar to my own experience where I was able to put an inflammatory bowel disease that I'd suffered from for 16 years in remission in a couple of days by cutting back on my polyunsaturated fat intake. I was rather surprised at how effective it was, and that spurred my own interest in... nutrition and your research, among other things. So thank you for all... thank you, by the way, for all the papers that you've... published in there, you know, on your... or the blog posts that you've done over the years. I've started reading them probably more than 10 years ago, and I find that every time... as I continue to learn, I go back and I reread them, and... appreciate how much you had said. But I wasn't able to understand the first times because I didn't have the back the background to comprehend the points that you were making so when you. What it's so you've become I don't want to say notorious but rather famous in nutrition circles for having a somewhat unconventional view of what a healthy human diet looks like how. How would you describe for somebody who's new to your work? How would you describe you know succinctly your views on what human nutrition should be optimally? I started out in Mexico looking at the reason for malnutrition and poverty was a major thing. So I started thinking about the cost of foods and what was most easily available and started looking around the health of populations around the world and what they were eating and what was economically available to correct their problems. Oh, refined grains, for example, seemed to be a major problem when the traditional Mexican diet of tortillas and vegetables and small amounts of crustaceans, when that diet was replaced by the Spanish. Refined cereal-based diet and meats, for example, the nutritional deficiency diseases started showing up. So I looked at what the traditional diets were doing, and the lime processing using either calcium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide from ashes. to soak the corn kernels in to pre-cook them in this strong alkali solution. It changes the chemistry. For example, decreases the tryptophanes, turns it into niacin, and makes the starch and toxic proteins digestible and harmless. Simply, their traditional process of the way they cooked their corn turned it from a toxin to an actually beneficial food rich in calcium, niacin, and other essential nutrients. In the southern U.S., where they imported corn from Mexico but didn't widely. Use the alkali process harmony is the safe form of corn cooked in lime but when they didn't make their corn into harmony they got pellagra yes terrible very nasty disease of niacin deficiency niacin is. Vitamin b6 if I remember correctly Yeah with an excess of leucine one of the excess amino acids in corn right Yes, interesting interesting How did you? Okay, so that makes sense. I mean, that's a pretty you know, I Would hate to say I hate to say it, you know It seems that when you go to a vet the first thing they ask you about your pet is you what is your pet eating and when you go to a doctor they don't generally ask that question for a biological approach. If you have nutritional deficiencies let's figure out what's causing them. I used to suggest that people would do better going to their vet rather than their doctor. Yes, exactly. So what would... So you make a couple of statements that a lot of people find somewhat confusing or hard to take. You're a fan of, to some extent, of consuming sugar as part of a healthy diet. Do you want to describe the rationale behind that? Yeah. Many years ago, I was hearing dieticians talk about the … glycemic index of foods, and right in their own tables, they showed that starches had a higher glycemic index than sucrose. And that started me thinking about the difference between starch and sucrose. Sucrose consists of 50 percent fructose and 50 percent glucose, where starch is … ________________ when you assimilate it, it's pure glucose, and glucose stimulates insulin, turning on fat production and lowering your blood glucose unless you have a steady intake of it, where the fructose component either doesn't stimulate insulin or even can have a restraining influence on insulin. And so intrinsically, the reason sugar has lower glycemic index than starch is that the fructose component restricts insulin and restrains fat synthesis and so stabilizes blood sugar. And of course, for just that. Is advocated as a better sweetener for diabetics for a while? Yeah, but it has to be Unless you extract it from ripe Jerusalem artichokes Which take a lot of care in storage and so on? It's generally manufactured chemically and so it turns out that quite a few people have an allergic type reaction to the manufactured form of fructose. But if you eat fruits, for example, you not only get the fructose component of the sucrose, but the high potassium content of the fruit has an insulin-like activity. that also restrains your body's production of insulin. So the fruit goes in with a slightly insulin-moderating fructose content and also the simultaneous slates of potassium, which takes care of absorbing the glucose without needing to secrete insulin. And so it... it has these surprising ways of bypassing the insulin problem or what's related to diabetes. And I ran across two 19th century doctors, one in Paris and one in following up in England, who... the one in Paris was the first to observe that... a high-sugar diet cured his terminal diabetic patients, originally diabetes, because you couldn't assimilate glucose. You turned your protein of your tissues into glucose to survive, and so the diabetic wasted away, lost their muscles. And finally, died in essentially a starvation condition. The doctor in France gave his terminal diabetic patients who were wasting away the amount of sugar they craved and found that they stopped wasting away and very quickly started building muscle when they were eating. A regular diet, milk, beef, fruits and vegetables, and so on, but along with a sugar supplement. So the doctor in England did exactly the same thing and described the course of people who were dying, wasting away, putting out tremendous amounts of sugar in their urine, even though they weren't eating any. They were restricted because they called diabetes the sugar disease, so they were torturing their patients by not letting them have any of the sugar that they craved, but he decided not to torture his patients and let them add as much sugar as they wanted to their diet. Suddenly, they stopped putting glucose into urine. They stopped losing muscle and recovered very quickly. It sounds like this was because the sugar intake was sparing the liver the necessity of using glucose to produce the glucose that their bodies needed. Yeah, it turns off the cortisol which breaks down your tissue protein to make sugar out of it, or the sugar equivalent. Thank you. And same thing happens in cancer. The myth has developed that sugar feeds cancer. It's true in a sense, but the cancer sends out signals such as ammonia to the body that needs sugar if you don't have sugar in your diet. And the... body turns on extreme amounts of cortisol, providing sugar by breaking down your immune system, muscles and skin, all of your tissues, except the brain and lungs and heart are preserved. But the cancer causes catexia or the wasting disease as the main killer. And that's what we're going to talk about in this video. If you simply give the body a large amount of glucose or sugar of any sort, that will reduce the production of cortisol and stop the destruction of the body tissue or at least slow it. So diabetes and cancer have that in common, that they involve the stress, which is a major high cortisol-induced loss of active body tissue to provide the glucose, which is essential for the brain to survive. Are both diabetes and cancer driven a lot by the overconsumption of the PUFAs? Exactly. The PUFA, the... the number of unsaturated groups in the molecule, the more highly polyunsaturated the fat is, the more double bonds there are in the molecule. And exactly in proportion to the number of double bonds, the interference with thyroid function increases, so the... Enzymes that release thyroid from the gland are inhibited by the highly unsaturated fatty acids. The proteins that carry thyroid hormone in the blood, the thyroid is displaced competitively by the highly unsaturated fatty acids, exactly in proportion to the number of double bonds. And the... cells, tissue cells ability to respond to the thyroid hormone that they do receive is blocked in proportion to the number of double bonds. So it's every known step of thyroid activity which is needed to produce oxidative energy and it's that exactly which fails in diabetes and cancer so that you lose. Oxidative energy production from glucose and the fatty acids it's in the 1960s research showed that as your free fatty acids in the blood go up from stress from the need for more sugar in your diet. The increase of free fatty acids blocks. exactly the ability to use and oxidize glucose. Apparently the basic survival function of that which is called the Randall cycle, the biological function is probably to stop the use of glucose in your massive skeletal muscles and dispensable tissues, skin and muscles in particular, saving whatever glucose is available for use by the brain, heart and lungs. But as the pre-fatty acids in the blood rise, then even the ability of the heart and lungs in the brain to use it. Glucose for energy decreases, and that's especially true if the pre-fatty acids are highly unsaturated because they are increasingly toxic to the mitochondria in proportion to their instability and high unsaturation. OK, now this. Wow, this. Reminds me of one of your blog posts, Dr. Pete, that's. Nation of information and there's a lot of unpacking that can be done to understand some of the things. Your your comments to go back to your comments on sugar. Primitive tribes that subsists. On high amounts of honey, which is effectively the same thing as sugar, it's up to 80% seasonally in some groups, and to suffer no ill effects, which speaks to your view that sugar isn't, except perhaps for its dental effects, a harmful nutrient. There's an organization, I will say, of fructose going on nowadays. There's a physician out of San Francisco, Dr. Lustig, I don't know if you're aware of him. I saw his famous video. Right, okay. Do you have any thoughts on what the difference between your view and his view on fructose and metabolism? Yeah, during his talk in that video, he quickly shows many references in the background. And I looked up all of the references that I could read and found that they supported my argument as much as they did his. And for example, he described fructose as a poison similar to ethyl alcohol. In fact, if you're poisoned, you're going to be poisoned for the rest of your life. By an overdose of ethanol, if you're very, very drunk, the antitoxin or the antidote to alcohol poisoning is fructose. It exactly reverses the changes inside the cells caused by alcohol. So he was right about alcohol being a metabolic poison. He was exactly wrong by saying it's like fructose. Fructose is the antidote to the alcohol effect. That's fascinating and that is very interesting. Tucker, I wanted to ask what he mentioned about the role of PUFAs in causing cancer. Is that related to kind of what you've proposed about cardiolipin? In its role, could you explain that or maybe maybe? Yeah, I'm Pufa seems to be a metabolic mitochondrial toxin to the effect that I Mean, there's some there's some argument that your mitochondria actually prefer to burn it to get rid of it It seems to be toxic to the extent that it alters the mitic and composition which makes it more susceptible to oxidative damage and this breaks down the electron transport chain impairing mitochondrial function especially the ability to process glucose so you know if you know that that's basically the mechanism that I've seen that describes what Dr. Pete is talking about. Yeah it used to be 40 or 50 years ago there was the absolute doctrine dogma that diabetes was a genetic disease almost 100% caused by genes and the new immigrants after the formation of Israel Israel had an extremely high incidence of diabetes. Somewhat higher than the European countries the immigrants had come from, and the dogma persisted that they simply had the genes for being diabetic. But then immigrants to Israel from the African countries, these people were very genetically different. And had no diabetes at all when they moved into the new country. But they soon took up the European diet that the diabetics were eating. And their children all had the European high incidence of diabetes, totally disproving the genetic causation. The polyunsaturated fats were high in the European diet and had been very low in the African immigrants until they moved. So do you see any promising treatments people are proposing for diabetes and cancer or is that a complicated? Yeah, the same as the two 19th century doctors. Uh, it's all a matter of, uh, revising your thinking, uh, realizing that the, uh, unsaturated fats, uh, are the cause, uh, uh, and, uh, uh, getting rid of them in the diet as far as possible. Uh, and then, uh, uh, returning to a, uh, a more, uh, a traditional, uh, uh, diet, uh, of carbohydrates, uh, and moderate amounts of protein. Uh, from a variety of sources. Right. And that's sorry. Go ahead, David. I'm just saying, let food be thy medicine as your approach for these diseases, right? Yeah. And the minerals are extremely important in a less refined diet. There, there was a lot of magnesium and calcium, uh, uh, vegetable greens. If they're cooked. Uh, provide both lots of magnesium and calcium and, uh, the cows and goats that live primarily on leafy greens, uh, uh, process, uh, uh, their rumen, uh, ferment, uh, and predigest, uh, the, uh, greens, uh, which are high in PUFA, but, but they, uh, uh, the bacteria in their rumen destroys about 97% of the PUFA, uh, uh, so you get the very rich, uh, calcium and magnesium content in their milk, uh, uh, uh, to, to some extent in the meat, but, uh, not nearly as much as in the milk, uh, along with a, a radical, uh, decrease, uh, of the PUFA content. Uh, and, uh, uh, simply getting a very generous amount of these minerals, uh, calcium and magnesium, uh, is, uh, uh, therapeutic not only to diabetes, uh, but to a lot of other conditions. Uh, the, uh, there, there's a somewhat mysterious brain disease, uh, that was first seen in Guam, but in... several other regions, uh, uh, uh, that resembles, uh, uh, Lou Gehrig's disease or, uh, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, uh, and Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. It, it includes, uh, a combination of all of those symptoms. Uh, and, uh, uh, they have considered various theories about poisons from bacteria and so on. Uh, and, they, thank you. uh, from eating, uh, uh, uh, uh, flying Fox, uh, uh, that had lived on, uh, foods containing those bacteria. And it turns out that what those regions have in common, not the toxins, but they are all regions, very low in calcium, calcium and or magnesium. And in the absence of a large amount of calcium or magnesium in your diet, the brain cells, uh, take up any, uh, uh, positively charged, uh, metal in place of, uh, uh, the, the calcium and magnesium. Uh, what happens when you're deficient in calcium is your parathyroid land becomes hyperactive, turns off. Almost directly or indirectly, your mitochondrial function decreases your ability to produce energy and lacking energy, cells tend to calcify and the calcium is, in early years, protective molecules. What is ultra-hypertensive? of these de-energized, de-vitalized tissues. But if it continues for a long time, the diet deficiency of calcium leading to hyperparathyroidism and reduced mitochondrial energy leads to eventually destructive levels of calcium in the tissues, such as hardening of the arteries, calcification of the brain, heart valves. kidneys and so on. But in these island regions, they called it Guamanian dementia, because it was discovered on the island of Guam. In the absence of the calcium to such an extent that your parathyroid hormone becomes very high, de-energizing your cells. If your environment has a normal amount of iron, lead, and any of the heavy metals, they will load up to a toxic extent with the heavy metals. And then the heavy metals interact. To catalyze the oxidative breakdown of the PUFA, which are concentrated in the brain. So a calcium deficiency, if you're extremely deficient, you won't even deposit the usual amount of calcium. It'll be replaced by iron deposits or land or whatever other metal is excessive. Copper, molybdenum, and manganese, for example, and aluminum is a major accumulated mineral because it's generally abundant when calcium is deficient. Interesting. So, now, you mentioned at one point in our discussion how... high fatty acids can impair insulin and there's been, obviously, as I'm sure you're well aware, ketogenic diets have become quite popular outside of the therapeutic indications in the last few years. Some people have used your writings to say that... a ketogenic diet can be harmful because the lack of glucose increases cortisol to meet the body's glucose requirement and that this is a harmful side effect of a ketogenic diet. Is that a fair representation of... Yeah, it's an essential to making the ketones. The ketones are great if you get them in fruits and potatoes, for example. They work fine as an energy source for heart and brain and so on. But if you have to make them yourself, the way you make them is to break down proteins, which will come necessarily partly from your own tissues, despite the fact that you're eating a lot of protein. The cortisol doesn't care whether it's... exogenous protein or your muscle protein that breaks down. And so when you're starving your tissues for glucose, your brain, lungs and heart are going to get glucose any way it can, which means from protein. And so you break down your own protein or your food protein. And in the process, you have to dispose of the large amount of ammonia released by the protein. That means that you become increasingly dependent on carbon dioxide to combine with the ammonia to make urea and get rid of the potentially toxic ammonia. And if something interferes with your carbon dioxide production... specifically not oxidizing enough glucose, which produces about twice as much CO2 per unit of energy as oxidizing fat, you're creating a situation in which you have these multiple interacting stress factors that generally... at an extreme, it can end up with poisoning your brain with too much ammonia, but always to some extent poisoning your body with too much cortisol breaking down proteins to make the glucose to sustain your brain and lungs and blood system. Right, understood, and that would explain why... people who go on a ketogenic weight loss diet seem to experience a little more free fat mass or fat-free mass loss compared to people who go on a high carb, low fat diet when they examine the two side by side. Just looking at the pancreas gland itself, the way back around 1920 people were... thinking of of genetic reasons for the loss of the beta cells in the pancreas that can make insulin. And it turns out that we have stem cells in the pancreas constantly replacing. If you kill for whatever reason your beta cells, they are stem cells. Ready to give birth to new insulin producing beta cells and glucose is the sustaining factor for making new stem cells for maintaining the ability to replace the missing insulin producing cells. But free fatty acids are constantly killing the beta cells. So a deficiency of glucose limits the stem cell production and an excess of free fatty acids kills the beta cells faster. That means that you can very quickly activate the stem cells to make new beta cells, and at the same time, you can kill the beta cells faster. By increasing the sugar availability, decrease the free fatty acids which are killing the beta cells and that can account for how these two 19th century doctors so quickly cured terminal diabetics. The pancreas is perfectly willing to repair itself and become non-diabetic. If you just stop killing it with Pufa. So what about people who do the lower carb diet, but they're eating 40 to 50 grams of carbs a day, would that not be enough? That would not be enough? Far from it, I think. At somewhat, well more than 100 grams per day, the healthy amount seems to be up. Above 200 grams of carbohydrate per day, the therapeutic amount that the French and English doctors used was somewhat, a little over half a pound of sugar per day added to a standard diet. So what about folks that say they, they seem to gain weight whenever they're eating? Uh, that kind of level of sugar, 200 grams of sugar a day, is there, it's just about the right sugars eating the fruits? Well, they, they probably weren't terminal diabetics. The patients of these 19th century doctors stopped needing the sugar supplement in just two or three weeks. But if someone isn't diabetic and they add that amount of sugar, it's all, uh, uh, unnecessary excise, excess calories. In the case of the diabetics, they were powerfully deficient in calories. And so when they added the half a pound of, of sugar, they were simply making them a calorie, a neutral and, uh, uh, uh, shifted them to an anabolic metabolism that made the calories more efficient for rebuilding muscle. But a person who isn't in that dying state from advanced diabetes always has to attend keeping their calorie intake within their metabolic consumption. Uh, animal experiments show that, uh, shifting to a fruit or sugar-based sucrose-added diet increases, in various studies, increases the metabolic rate by around 20 percent so they can keep their metabolism in a calorie-balanced condition even by adding a moderate amount of sugar. But gaining fat weight means definitely that you're out of balance, taking in too many calories. So, if a person who's normal in terms of not having any specific diseases but overweight, you would recommend still including lots of fruits, and I believe you're big on dairy, ice cream even. Could people... Yeah, the calcium and vitamin D are probably the most powerful weight loss nutrients there are because both of them suppress the inflammatory system and the parathyroid hormone. And the parathyroid hormone suppresses mitochondrial oxidation, and it's a very important part of creates a vicious circle of stress. And the most powerful way to stop that exaggerated parathyroid hormone is to get a lot of calcium, magnesium, and vitamin D in your diet. And that, again, drastically increases your ability to burn calories, produce heat, and not get fat. A low-fat milk. A diet with adequate vitamin D is a very efficient weight loss diet, as well as therapeutic in a variety of other conditions. In fact, probably all of the really dangerous diseases are helped by a diet high in vitamin D. Calcium and magnesium. Interesting. Yeah, so the with you've talked about the vitamin D factor with that best source of that be getting a lot of sunlight exposure. Yeah, it in moderate latitude in Florida. The sun is always within a. A reasonable. Intensity high in the sky during the middle of the day in the northern states, except in the late spring, summer and early fall, even the midday sun is so low in the sky. Not not going to get enough sun. Only in the middle of the day in the summer, late spring and early fall in the northern states, sunbathing is is curative. It takes 30 minutes to an hour of good sun exposure on the majority of your skin to keep your vitamin D level. At least the middle of the range they call normal. That should be something like 50 or 60 nanograms per milliliter To keep your parathyroid hormone under control And is that morning Sun the best Sun? In Florida is probably the best You can get very sunburned if you spend too much time and in the middle So you you have good ultraviolet activity when you're in a low latitude And the higher altitude the Sun is more intense Dr. Pete have you looked into the relationship between it's not something I've seen in your writing. Have you looked into the relationship between between omega-6 PUFA intake and sunburn and skin cancer Oh, yeah. There was a rabbit experiment. They shaved the rabbits and fed one group a PUFA-rich diet, the other one a PUFA-deficient diet, and the ones on a PUFA-deficient diet didn't have sun damage, and they happened to be studying the Rinsling effect. The ones eating a lot of PUFA had so much sun damage, their skin got fragile and wrinkled. And the same thing that causes wrinkling, it's the same process that leads to chronic inflammation and cancer. Right, and additionally, I would expect the fibrosis that we see in a lot of these chronic diseases. Yeah, the... the tendency to swelling up burn symptoms and eventually fibrosis and even calcium deposits in extremely damaged skin. It's very common for precancerous and cancerous inflamed cells. to show crystals of calcium forming. Interesting, due to the body's inability to properly process calcium. I presume. Yeah. Interesting, yeah. I discovered myself years back after going to a low omega-6 PUFA diet that, uh... I, within a few weeks, had a much lower susceptibility to sunburn. I've also noticed a lower susceptibility to just burn from hot things, like, you know, kitchen accidents and the like. It's been a rather dramatic alteration that a lot of other people have reported when they go on a, you know, a diet that's also low in omega-6 fats, like a lot of the people who go on a carnivore diet. You know, if they're eating a lot of beef, they're going to get a lot less omega-6, and they've pretty, not entirely, but pretty unanimously noticed a decline in susceptibility to sunburn. And I'm. Yeah, vitamin D and calcium help that along. They are contradictory to the PUFA effect. I used to sunburn just ridiculously easy. Just driving with tinted windows in a bright sunny area in the desert, for example, I would get horribly sunburned right through the windows and five minutes in the midday sunlight in Mexico, and I would have a lobster looking skin color. But after supplementing. Vitamin D, getting lots of milk in my diet and avoiding Pufa as completely as possible. The last time I was in Mexico, I was able to work the whole day at about 7,500 feet altitude. Extremely intense ultraviolet, no burning at all. When you talk about... I've noticed similar myself. I now live in Idaho in the high desert and I'm not impervious to sunburn, but I can go hours out in the sun without getting a serious burn. It's quite pleasant, not having to worry about that. Very, very convenient. I used to wear a hat all the time, but I don't bother with a hat anymore. You talk about milk consumption. A lot of people are concerned about drinking store-bought pasteurized milk. They feel like there's all kinds of stuff in there that ruins the quality of the product that you would get in raw milk. Do you have any thoughts on that? Oh, the pasteurizing does slightly lower the vitamin content and so on, so it's still... just about the best food available, even when it's not well-treated. But if you have a problem with one brand of milk, I found that the taste of the milk is a good indicator of how easy it is on your digestion. But some people do react probably to the way they've added the vitamin A and D. They use an emulsifier, and some of the emulsifiers might cause digestive problems. But if you try different brands, you can usually find some kind of milk that agrees with your digestive system. And if you haven't been a milk drinker, it's important to start with, for example, half a glass with each meal, and then gradually build up over... a few weeks, because it takes time to induce enzymes, such as lactase, in your intestine. Even lactose intolerant people, if they go at it gradually, can induce the enzymes needed to break down lactose. So you don't seek out raw milk yourself? You don't drink that? No. If I had a good clean source, a lot of even commercial dairies don't wash the udders of the cow before they milk it. When we had a cow at home, we always carefully sponge off the udder to get rid of the dandruff. We were careful to wash the cow with non- preservative water, so we could keep the udders in a fresh place. and the dirt might be possible to get into the milk, but lots of dairies don't do proper hygiene with their cows. Should children drink low-fat milk or full-fat milk? What kind of children? Just children growing up. Should they drink full-fat or low-fat? It depends on how active they are, nowadays kids are more likely to drink full-fat milk. be watching their computer or telephones than doing active calorie burning, so I think usually one or two percent fat content is good even for kids. Even a dairy country where people are working vigorously eight or ten hours a day. Then full fat milk is very appropriate because they need the calories and will burn them. Very often people who drink whole milk and have a sedentary way of life are going to get fat. Have you seen Herman Ponser's papers on... exercise and obesity? Who is that? Herman Ponser. P-O-N-T-Z-E-R. No, I haven't seen them. They're pretty interesting. Anyway, that's a little off topic, but I highly commend his work. It's quite interesting looking at the relationship between exercise and obesity. One of the overlooked things that exercise does... If you're working, for example, you don't have to think of exercising if you're moving bales of hay or milking a cow or whatever. One of the overlooked things is that muscle activity increases your body temperature and the increased body temperature increases your calorie burning. And so it's similar to what thyroid supplementing does, the good body warming effect of physical activity keeps your metabolic rate going with an anti-inflammatory effect. If you're sedentary, your body's temperature falls and you go into a pro-inflammatory state. Of course, exercise also upregulates your resistance to oxidative stress, which from my understanding of that term is generally what it means in practice is a toxic effect of omega-6 fat breakdown. Exercise increases your ability to detoxify omega-6 fats in the body and their metabolites. Body temperature is very powerful. In reducing lipid peroxidation, for example, higher body temperature lowers inflammation and lowers lipid peroxidation, makes you oxidize properly rather than oxidizing fats that shouldn't be oxidized. So that gets another controversial... position that you hold, and I will, you know, with the caveat that I, assuming I understand it correctly, let me describe what I understand, is that you caution people against excess fish oil intake. Clearly, omega-3 fats are also susceptible to lipid peroxidation, just like omega-6 fats are. Much more so. Much more so, okay, although, so do you want to describe your position on that so I don't mangle it? It's the number of double bonds, and the fish oil is extremely rich in five and six double bonds, or the seed oil, and minus three, and minus six vegetable oils typically have two double bonds. Those are sufficiently toxic, but when you get five or six double bonds in a molecule, the instability is that much greater. The anti-saturate effect of the fish oil, very highly unsaturated, is that much greater than the seed oil. But the good thing is that they are so unstable. That a large part of them breaks down before they even circulate to your tissues. And it's the breakdown products, the oxidation fragments of the N-3 fish oil type of PUFA that has the so-called anti-inflammatory effect. It's toxic. To your immune system to the extent that for the first few months you can see a definite anti-inflammatory effect by interfering with things such as prostaglandin synthesis and some of the inflammatory cytokines and breaking down thymus cells that could be involved in inflammation. But the trouble is that prolonged use, after about six months, this anti-inflammatory effect starts becoming immunosuppressive and over a lifetime the amount of the long-chain highly unsaturated M-3 accumulates. Stabilized to some extent by forming an ester with cholesterol molecules. And that happens in atherosclerotic plaques in the arteries. And then when it does oxidize, forming an aged pigment-like material in your arteries, that's part of the buildup. of the high cholesterol-containing plaque, but it's the PUFA esters that start the process of forming aged pigment and or arterial plaques. But that process continues in the brain so that the old person's brain has much more fish oil-like molecules. The baby's brain.  Any healthy pregnancy delivers a baby who is, according to the dieticians, deficient in the so-called essential fatty acids. Their brain, their body is burning calories at two or three times the rate of an older individual and their brain is learning at several times a higher rate than an adult. In the teens, the metabolic rate slows drastically in proportion to how much unsaturated fat is in your diet, turning down your metabolic rate, but with aging, these anti-metabolic fish oil like M-3 fats build up steadily in the brain. People are talking about them as being necessary because they find so much of them in the brain but in late development fetus just before delivery and right after delivery, healthy babies are extremely deficient in all of the PUFA and the brain function corresponds negatively to the amount of PUFA esters of cholesterol in the brain. So the actual available cholesterol decreases in the aging and de-menting brain. The cholesterol which is needed to make progesterone in the brain, for example, is bound up to the PUFA molecules which accumulate the de-mended brain. It has more total cholesterol but it's inactivated by being stuck to the highly unsaturated molecules that have accumulated from the diet. From what I understand, babies are more naturally going in and out of ketosis. Is that a healthy version because they're getting the ketones from the mother's milk? Yeah, the mother's milk is. So, because they're not producing those ketones in their own body, it's a healthy type of ketosis for them to have. Well, I don't think they should go into ketosis if the mother is producing sugar-rich milk. The baby has such a high metabolic rate, they very quickly use up their sugar and need to be fed again. Right, so what is – so that – Okay, so let's distinguish though between fish oil and fish consumption. I mean, I've read some of your posts where you recommend eating some amount of fish, but not necessarily the fatty fish like salmon and mackerel that were all in sardines that were all told are the healthiest fish because of the high omega-6 content. And I mean, you mentioned at the beginning of this discussion, Mexicans eating crustaceans and having a healthy diet. And of course, the Japanese eat a lot of fish and have a long, have, you know, a fairly healthy, uh, lifespan. Yeah, and what the crustacean eats, the puffa derive generally from algae and the very simple sea creatures or water or organisms live. Ultimately from the nature of the simple single cellular sun-dependent organisms and so if the food that the crustacean eats has a more saturated fat because they live at a warmer temperature than the crustacean itself is going to. have less of the fish oil material. For example, in the Amazon, with the high water temperature 85 degrees or so, the fish fat there is closer to butter than to what we think of as fish oil from the northern seas that are very cold. Of course, in the same effect holds true for vegetable fats that... coconuts and palm, which come from tropical areas, are much more saturated than grains, which tend to grow in temperate climates. Yeah, and you can show that effect. Someone put sweaters on pigs, for example, and showed that their fat was more saturated. That's very funny. Interesting. Sorry, David, go ahead. But I just wanted to ask about some other things to avoid, to avoid PUFA. Should people avoid the chicken eggs from the grocery store, pork, fatty pork, fatty chicken, because they have a lot of high linoleic acid in the fat? Right. When I make chicken broth, I let it cool enough to skim off as much of the fat as possible. And as someone... sent me some of their pork, they had the fat analyzed, where the agriculture department found that their so-called saturated fat from lard was actually over 30 percent PUFA. But this pork producer sent me a sample of their foods, their bacon and such, that by analysis had only 4 percent. Pufa, and butter is from 2 to 3 percent pufa, so that pork would be very safe, and if you feed your chickens or your pigs a good diet, like my friends in Mexico feed their chickens table scraps, lots of tortillas, carbohydrates, and let them eat bugs that are... are relatively saturated, their eggs taste much better and are low in PUFA. The worse the supermarket egg tastes, if they give them flax, for example, the eggs will taste like fish because of the highly unsaturated fats. Right, right, yeah, I noticed. I traveled down to Ecuador many years ago, and the first thing that I ate when I got there was a plate of scrambled eggs, and I was absolutely blown away by how much better they tasted than American eggs. And they, you know, the yolks were dark orange, and it just, you know, I've never forgotten how much tastier those eggs were, I've been trying to recapture that experience here in America. And it's not. is very easy even with pastured eggs because they do feed them a lot of grain as a base diet. If you keep them close to the house so they eat the food you are throwing away, they're getting almost a good diet. Right. Now, something else that you just mentioned, how babies seem to be born is in a state that a medical doctor would describe as almost essential fatty acid deficient. There's a fascinating paper that I came across. Of course, as I'm sure you're aware, one of the quote-unquote signs of essential fatty acid deficiency is the presence of meat acid which is an omega-9 fatty acid made by the body acid. the absence of omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids, and this paper looked at the cartilage of a variety of different species and noticed that every single animal that they looked at when it was born had a high amount of meat acid in the cartilage, indicating that it was essentially that it was deficient, but also the fact that every single one of them was born in that state indicates that that may be the state that we ought to be in. What do you think of that point of view? Absolutely right. There's a guy in Australia, I think his name was Clellan, found a way to get a practical amount to make supplements of an omega-9 and omega-9 fatty acids, and he found a way to make supplements of an omega-9  equivalent of a prostaglandin. Our bodies, when we're deficient in PUFA, will still use the enzymes that make prostaglandins, but they will act on the omega-9 fats producing an omega-9 fatty acid. Prostaglandin-like material except these are anti-inflammatory and restorative, regenerative or the prostaglandins we know made from N-6 fatty acids are invariably harmful. Even the so-called good prostaglandins have their harmful side effects. Breaking down bone structure, damaging nerve cells, skin cells, blood vessels, everything the prostaglandins we're familiar with all have their very harmful effects. But the omega-9-based prostaglandin-like substances are actually... essential and beneficial to good health, but you have to be deficient in the so-called essential fatty acids before we produce enough of the meat acids to reliably make these anti-inflammatory protective prostanoids. Interesting. Animal experiments, I've accumulated about 20 of them, I guess, showing that any injury to the animal is minimal when the animal is producing meat acids and deficient in the so-called essential fatty acids. Now what do you mean by any injury to the animal is minimal? They took some of them by the tail and whacked them against the furniture and gave others cobra venom, all kinds of toxins that they could think of, poisons that would create diabetes and other animals didn't hurt these deficient animals. See now that's that is again fascinating because one of the things and I've posted about this on Twitter a number of times that I have noticed since going on a low omega-6 diet is that I am much more resistant to injury and especially to pain from injury and at first it was so extreme that I was concerned that I was coming down with leprosy of course the primary symptom of which is peripheral nerve degeneration to the point where you can't feel things but you know 10 years later it's still going on and I'm you know obviously don't have leprosy but I'm still largely impervious to these little minor impacts. I've never heard of animal studies actually showing that. That's quite fascinating. Yeah, the Prestiglandins. The corresponding accumulation that's generally related to age as you eat the standard diets. The Prestiglandins are easier and more abundant to produce with a minor injury the older you are and the more of these unsaturated fats you have in your tissues and so nd old person entering their tissues gets worse symptoms. A very healthy, say a three or four year old can get a bruise or a scrape or a cut and in three or four days there's no sign of it left or an old person will. Sometimes develop a chronic problem or at best it might take two weeks to heal an equivalent injury. Right, yeah, that's exactly what I've noticed. I'm, I heal much more quickly. I'm much more, you know, impervious to pain. I had a cold recently fly out of a campfire and land on my leg and it hurt a lot when it was sitting on my leg burning me and burning a hole through my pants as soon as I took it off the pain went away and you know previously I would have expected a burn to hurt for days and Now with the pain went away as soon as I had the source of the burning off my body And I just blew my mind what a stark difference. It was from my previous experiences Hun cell D who was famous for the stress physiology he carried his stress studies from the systemic level down to the tissue level and found that such things as polyunsaturated fats caused all sorts of susceptibility canola oil he found that it was the proof of content of the original rapeseed oil. Rather than the erucic acid that was eliminated to make canola, he found that just the linoleic acid content of the natural rapeseed oil was enough to spontaneously cause necrotic areas to form in the heart, spontaneous heart degeneration. But he......found that on the same amount of rapeseed oil, if he added cocoa butter with a very high stearic acid content, their heart was protected by displacing the harmful so-called essential fatty acids, and other studies of his showed that vitamin E which prevents the breakdown of polyunsaturated fats protected against all of the consequences starting with histamine release from any kind of injury you can think of. In some experiments, you would pull tufts of an animal's hair out. That was enough to activate histamine and other stress signals that would then be amplified by prostaglandins. from their PUFA in the tissues, leading to calcification defensively and in the absence of vitamin E. The PUFA-prostaglandin histamine interactions would cause iron deposition and heretopoietic selection and neutralization Thanks for watching! Scleroderma-like condition. He showed that iron excess and vitamin E deficiency, activating the PUFA oxidation, created rats that were like an armadillo. You could tap them with a pencil and it sounded like they had a shell. Their skin was so calcified. Well, okay, that doesn't sound great. That certainly doesn't sound great. That is very interesting. Have you heard of the term theroptosis? Oh, yeah, in fact, that's part of the current newsletter. I mean, to write in the next few days is how that concept really is an extension of what Hans Selye was working on. He would inject iron chloride, for example, and create a predisposition to tissue injury, cell death, inflammation, calcification, fibrosis. Yeah, I mean, ferroptosis to me sounds like a description of how iron catalyzes PUFA oxidation. And I think blaming it on the iron is a bit misleading. Yeah, I think Hans Selye was on the right course 60 years ago. Dr. Pete, how does one subscribe to your newsletter? And I ask you this because I would like to. And I'm sure a lot of our listeners would be interested in doing so as well. Yeah, the email address is raypeatnewsletter, with the S but no apostrophe, at gmail.com. Yeah, email or gmail. gmail.com. And just send an email asking to be subscribed? It costs $20 for 12 issues over two years, bimonthly. Okay. I wanted to ask you quickly, we recently interviewed Professor Bruce Hammack of UC Davis, who's been studying linoleic acid. He was first looking at burn patients and how. How they were affected by their high amounts of linoleic acid in their body and how their infections were correlated to that and and then he discovered the soluble epoxide hydrolase enzyme. disease and he said the majority of them were all you know every one of the ones they looked at had this high amount of leukotoxin from linoleic acid that was causing the acute respiratory distress syndrome. Is that similar to what you would suggest is causing a lot of this recurring severe cases for this pandemic? Oh yeah the the iron and PUFA are exactly part of any stress reaction of viral, inflammatory, thrombotic diseases. It's all the sort of thing that Hans Selye was exploring in the 1960s. So iron is just as problematic as PUFA as a stressor? Well, they go together when you're... energy production slows down because of PUFA, the tissue has many reactions, so that a defensive reaction to any sort of injury or infection, it increases the heme oxygenase production. Potentially, antioxidant process, but the heme oxygenase breaks down heme, depositing iron in the tissue as well as carbon monoxide, further slowing down mitochondrial energy production while the iron accumulates. So the more iron... that's available, the lower the energy production in reaction to injury or infection, the worse the outcome is going to be. So iron chelators, for example, can be therapeutic in some situations, but just reducing the amount of iron in your diet. Milk and cheese as major factors in the diet are going to protect you very quickly against the retained iron excess, make you less susceptible to degenerative injury, ferroptosis, inflammation and so on from any stress or including viruses. So should you reduce your red meat consumption, even if you've gotten rid of your PUFA consumption, you know, reduce your seed oil consumption completely? Yeah, the meat not only has a very out of balance iron excess relative to copper and other minerals, it also has an imbalance in the direction of tryptophanes, and so on. And cysteine, which are anti-thyroid pro-inflammatory amino acids, and an extremely out of balance excess of phosphate, which is an excitatory agent, counteracting the protective quieting effects of calcium. Some have suggested that the... that these high amounts of PUFA consumption are creating and are inducing a state of torpor in humans, and that's why there's a constant low energy state and a desire, you know, to overeat and be lethargic and to almost get ready for hibernation almost.  Yeah, the temperature is lowered.  animals that are going to hibernate load up on seeds, for example. In the late summer and early fall, they tremendously increase their PUFA content and shift that brings up serotonin activity, which helps to lower the body temperature. Interesting. So you do believe that the PUFA, the high PUFA consumption, probably is inducing a kind of torpid state for people, humans? Yeah, the experimenters have deprived them of PUFA and they didn't go into torpor or hibernation. Animals, animal models. Yeah. Interesting. So that's interesting to consider that as what's going on here then. Well, and there's also a... human experiment, I mean, an n equals one, where a woman who was on a low omega-6 diet started eating omega-6, and her metabolic rate went down pretty promptly. That was... About 50 years ago, someone did a very illuminating RAD experiment. They divided, I think it was 15 different diet compositions. With either high and low PUFA content and either higher low saturated fat content and intermediate diets to all of those and at the end of a long period most of their life they analyzed their body composition. And found that the highest body fat corresponded to the proportion of PUFA in the diet, not the quantity. And was lowest in the diets with the proportion of saturated fats, not the quantity. So that the high saturated fat diet. Produced leaner animals ultimately than a low PUFA diet. It was the proportion not the quantity. So now, so that's the, sorry go ahead. That illustrates the slowing of the metabolic rate. So that's the PS ratio, the polyunsaturated to saturated ratio ratio that. Ancel Keys suggested having a high PS ratio would protect you from heart disease, and when that was tested experimentally in humans in the Lyon diet heart study, they found a massive decrease in subsequent cardiovascular events in the people with the low PS ratio. It sounds like that may be a more fundamental indicator of health than just the effects on obesity. Yeah, the saturation index, the opposite of the PS ratio, high saturated proportion, corresponds to species that are naturally longer-lived. They are naturally more saturated, and the cancer-prone individuals are low saturation index there. More highly polyunsaturated. It's a little likely to get cancer. Interesting. A researcher named Brad Marshall went and researched the USDA data for food consumption, caloric consumption, for Americans in 1938. He looked at different groups, and he found that the average caloric intake for a unit for a human was like over 4 000 calories a day in 1938 and everybody was you know relatively thin and they weren't eating the poofa like we are today do you believe that they were eating higher amounts of calories on average in those days than they are than we are today oh yeah even in the 1930s Broder Barnes studying different populations found that there was a fairly significant part of the population that was hypothyroid but that proportion has drastically increased during the time that we've been promoting unsaturated seed oils as a major so-called essential fatty acid source and when you look at the amount of grains in the diet and things that are sources of unsaturated fats versus fruits for example that help us make the saturated fats the obesity of the population corresponds to these starches and Pufa in the diet not the sugar. Interesting. Even table sugar? Yeah, the same thing that the diabetes doctors 150 years ago found. Even table sugar supports our metabolic calorie burning better than a grain-based starchy diet. Interesting. So, Dr. Pete, what's the takeaway for people? Of the things we've discussed and of, obviously, the larger body of work that you've put together, what would you say are the most important alterations one ought to make in one's diet to achieve a more optimal health? More fruit and milk would be the key. Simple things and sunlight and definitely avoiding all of the added pufa. Everything you buy in the supermarket is somehow distorted. They're even trying to put pufa in the milk by feeding chemical mixtures to cows that prevent the protective saturation that the rumen does. What about olive oil? You hear a lot of people warning olive oil as a healthy thing. Yeah, if it's actually good tasting, first pressing olive oil, the one you don't want is what they call light olive oil. It has a much higher pufa content, but good. First-pressing olive oil is only eight or ten percent pufa, usually. This has all been very fascinating, Dr. P. We really appreciate everything you've shared with us. Yes, great. As always, great cause for thought and further research. Thank you for your time and can you give out that email again for those who want to subscribe to your newsletter? Ray Pete's newsletter at gmail.com, $28 for 12 issues over two years. Just to be perfectly clear, that's because I've already tried to send an email to it and mistyped the email. Email address and got a correction sent back to me. It's r-a-y-p-e-a-t-s. Newsletter. If you leave the s out, somebody will send you back an automatic correction. I suppose whoever it is has gotten a lot of these. But at any rate, thank you, Dr. Pete. This has been very educational. Screenfuls of open references from our conversation and I'm gonna have it's gonna take a little while to process all of this stuff But it's been really quite enlightening Good talking to you. Yeah, you too. Take care. Have a great day. Come on.