=

Ray Peat's Newsletter

What is now proved was once only imagin’d.

Copyright Raymond Peat 1999

Homeostasis and Aging
Thyroid mysteries and minerals:
Cramps, excitotoxicity, dementia, and CO2

Blood perfusion of the brain and heart and
muscles is increased by carbon dioxide, which is
logical, considering that carbon dioxide ordinarily
rises during metabolic activation. But the kidneys
don’t have this simple response to carbon dioxide,
and this seems to be because of the special role of

carbon dioxide in homeostasis and kidney

function.

Blood flow to the kidneys is regulated by
nerves and hormones. Parathyroid hormone and
growth hormone cause vasodilation in the kidney,
and increase its blood flow. The increased flow
tends to produce a more dilute, hypotonic urine.
In the kidneys, carbon dioxide’s effects are much
more complex than just regulating blood flow, and
the kidneys maintain a remarkably high concentra-
tion of CO:, causing some people to argue that
they concentrate it from th =

About 88 years ago,]W._F. Koch (who is
known for his cancer therapy) studied the parathy-
roid hormone and its relation to tetany (prolonged
mouscle contraction) and convulsions, and was able
to demonstrate that the major minerals, sodium,
potassium, magnesium, and calcium are to some
extent interchangeable in alleviating the tetany
and convulsions produced by removal of the
parathyroid gland, though magnesium was the
most effective. This work was ignored by those
who wanted to establish a simple relationship
between “one gland, one hormone, one mecha-
nism, one symptom or disease.” A. J. Carlson’s
group promoted the idea that the parathyroid
hormone’s function was simply to increase the
amount of calcium in the blood, and that it was

PO Box 5764, Eugene OR 97405

December, 1999

calcium which prevented tetany. This doctrine
has had far-reaching consequences.

The view which has come to dominate twenti-
eth century biology is that organisms were assem-
bled by a simple-minded watchmaker named
Natural Selection, and that they can be understood
by reducing them to their simple parts, the way we
understand a watch or a motor. A polar opposite
to that view would be that nature is infinite, but
knowable. To understand Koch's stép from
tetany to cancer isn’t possible within the conven-
tions of ordinary “medical endocrinology,” but
Koch assumed that nature hadn’t learned its
methods in medical school. Kach postulated,
early in the century, that electrons and_free

Books by William Frederick Koch:
Cancer and its Allied Diseases, 1926. —
Natural Tnmunity, 1934.
The Chemistry of Natural Immunity, 1939.
The Survival Factor in Cancer and Viral
Infections, 1955, 1958.

radicals were involved in the most important
biological processes—respiration, movement,
immunity, regeneration, etc. He was probably the
first person to apply the subtleties of organic
chemistry (such as the activation of chemical

groups by nearby groups) to biology. (Electronic
induction.) Albert Szent-Gyorgyi/ a Hungarian
aristocrat, recognized the complexity of nature

and tried to work out a detailed scientific exvlana-

tion for the ideas postulated by Koch. Szent-
Gyorgyi, following Koch’s interest in free radical
color changes and fluorescence, understood that
certain biological pigments represented special
interactions of \glectrons> and (whorons ) with
proteins, and that muscle contraction wasn’t just
“a mechanical process,” but probably involved all
of the processes that distinguish life from death.

For both Koch and  Szent-Gyorgyi,
contraction, respiration, and cancer were life
processes that required understanding the interac-
tions of{water]/electrons/ and|proteins.) Practically
all other biologists ndiculed their interest in water
and electrons.

(One of Szent-Gyorgyi’s major projects in
studying the role of respiratory energy in muscle
contraction involved a strain of goat that suffers
from myotoniaj or chronic and generalized exces-
sive muscle tension. I suspect that Koch’s work
with tetany led him im this direction.)

Szent-Gyorgyi found that progesterone and
estrogen have_antagonistic effects on the heart,

and explained progesterone’ similarity to digitalis

by suggesting that it helps the cells to “build struc-
ture.” The(structure that he referred to in the
muscle cell was the structure made up of “struc-

tured water’) and ~proteins | and \regulatory
substances. Carbon dioxide’s concentration
affects the structural energy content of the protein-
water system, and this effect can nicely account
for many of the mysteries of cellular heat produc-
tion, including the negative heat observed_in
certain stages of nerve and muscle activity. Szent-
Gyorgyi sed a variety of glectron/photon/chemi-
cal interactions to demonstrate that intracellular
water has special structural properties. This line
of thinking led him to a view of ionic regulation

(1957) similar to Gilbert Ling’s, and probably
contributed to Linus Pauling’s similar ideas

(1960). (Szent-Gyorgyi never, publicly acknowl-
edged his respect for Koch’s work, since he was
cbviously aware of the great dangers from the
coalition of the medical-pharmaceutical establish-

ment, the FBI, and organized crime, which drove
Koch out of the United States. During the decade
in which Koch operated his clinic in Detroit, it
was the only large city in the U.S. in which
cancer mortality declined; while cancer_mortality
in Los Angeles was rising by 30%, in Detroit it
was declining by 20%. Immediately after the
Koch episode, the same alliance conspired against
Andrew Ivy and the Durovic-brothers to steal the
anticancer drug they called{ Krebiozeny but in
+ Koch’s case, they couldn’t figure out just what to
steal, so they tned to kill bim or put him in jail.

A. J. Carlson, incidentally, had a prominent role
in the conspiracy against Ivy.)

Instead of receptors and effectors, locks and

keys, motors and pumps, all built up arbitrarily by

natural selection, the coherent view of the organ-
ism is that the fundamental properties of matter
are used and amplified and focussed by
processes of tuning and balancing. It is the
“subtle reactivity” of the living system which

maintains the adaptive organization of energy and
structure, Part of the reactivity of the organism is
the flexibly interactive metabolism, which

adaptively distributes substance and energy.
Ordinary metabolism, by adjusting the affinities of
the cell subsiance, can account more rationally for
the processes that are called “homeostatic” than
the hypothetical apparatus of “pumps” and
“channels,” which are biology’s deus ex machina,

proposed whenever needed.

The doctrine of “one gland-one action” caused
people to focus on the low blood calcium which
occurs in the tetany which is brought on by
removal of the parathyroid gland (which
sometimes killed patients when their thyroids
were removed, along with the associated parathy-
roids). By the 1920s, surgeons were careful about
avoiding damage to the parathyroids to avoid
tetany, but tetany kept occurmng. They began
leaving part of the thyroid gland, too, but tetany
still occurred in a significant portion of patients.
In fact, tetany is a risk following other operations,
such as removal of the gall bladder. A new expla-

nation for post-thyroidectomy tetany was
invented, “the hungry bone syndrome?” based on
the idea that hyperthyroidism robs the bones of

calcium, and that the bones begin stealing calcium
from the rest of the body when the gland is
removed. However, animal experiments show
that it is only synthetic thyroxin which causes
bone to lose calcium, and that the natural thyroid
hormone, T;, stimulates bone growth; also, euthy-
roid patients can experience tetany following
removal of their thyroid.

Practically any kind of poisoning causes
cells to take up calcium from the blood, so tel
finding of hypocalcemia in association with tefany
might permit people to confuse effect with caus¢!

Achar COLOAL G v Caley

(VGraninive Emeburevgi ws # Aimwoiags ~ = CanvulSign

CN &5iS44 can a

The doctrine of hypocalcemic tetany led to the
practice of treating tetany with intravenous
calcium solutions; for example, veterinarians
often treat cows’ “grass tetany” with large intrave-
nous doses of calctum. The treatment works, but
the tetany is now attributed to a magnesium
deficiency (since magnesium supplementation
works better, as Koch discovered), and excessive
ammonia produced in the cow’s rumen can
contribute to the magnesium deficiency. The facts
that have grown up in veterinary research have a
strong parallel to Koch’s ideas presented around
1912.

Koch found that the convulsions produced by
removal of the parathyroid glands were associ-
ated with the development of nephritis and the
appearance of the toxic substances, guanidine

and |niethylguanidine. | These compounds, an
f ammonia,Jare now known to produce convulsions
by acting on the “excitatory amino acid receptors)”
These excitatory sscemtan alonamanitaamaniiteml =
cytoplasm, activating many cell processes, includ-
ing the liberation of fatty acids/and the breakdown
of proteins.} When these “receptors” are activated,

e cells” energy requirement increases, and
glucose is consumed mcre rapidly. Whenever
these “receptors” are activated, magnesium
protect the cell from the “toxic” excitation. Effec-
tive antidotes to the excitotoxins have been based
on their blocking of these “receptors.”
An ding is now known for its neuroprotective
activity, as well as its anticholinergic and antiviral
effects. In the 1950s, toxins based on the
guanidine group (e.g., wits were intro-
duced to treat diabetes, because they can lower
blood sugar, but they were later withdrawn
because they killed the patients too quickly.

Carbon dioxide, produced by respiratory use

of glucose, suppresses glycolysis, and so spares
sugar. Carbon dioxide is also combined_with
.ammonia, detoxifying it into urea. Although it
hasn’t been determined, I suspect that Koch’s
“toxic amines” are detoxified by their direct
combination with carbon dioxide, which sponta-
neously reacts with amines to form cabanio}
groups. When there isn’t enough carbon dioxide
to combine with ammonia, the ammonia can
combine with| ketoglutarate] from the Krebs cycle,

Uv

interfering with respiration at the same time that it
produces thefexcitatory glutamic acid. { Ammonia,
in chronic poisoning, rather than’ producing
convulsions, produces stupor and coma, and at
this point, its combination — to
produce glutamine is probably impo sa
defense against seizures, eliminating both
ammonia and glutamic acid.

Hyperventilation/ in which too much carbon
dioxide is “blown off,” causes tetany, \ and in

susceptible people, can cause convulsions.
Hyperventilation causes ‘Constriction) of the
bronchial muscles and thickening of mucus

producing symptoms of asthma. It causes
contraction of blood vessels in the heart, weaken-
ing the pumping action, while blood vessels in the
general circulation also constrict, raising blood
pressure and reducing circulation. Hyperventila-
tion commonly causes arrhythmia, and thickens
the blood. The loss of carbon dioxide reduces
brain circulation, creating complex paresthesias
and stroke symptoms. “Hyperventilation” is a
relative term, and refers to the amount of carbon
dioxide which is lost from the blood. Heavy,
rapid breathing at high altitude or in the presence
of a carbon dioxide-rich atmosphere, doesn’t
necessarily constitute hyperventilation.

Water, proteins, oxygen, and minerals, are all
crucially regulated by carbon dioxide. The
enzyme, (carbonic anhydrase,| which is regulated
by hormones (including the parathyroid hormone)
and nerves, accelerates the interchange between
carbon dioxide and bicarbonate, each of which
has special functions. Bicarbonate is more
soluble in water, but carbon dioxide is more
soluble in living substance and fats. Carbonic
anydrase is active in regions which regulate fluids,

_such as the kidne e eye, and the [esti
bular apparatus of the inner ear.

Carbon dioxide limits the electrical depolar-
zation of nerves and muscles, a phenomenon first
discovered by Gilbert Ling. This prevents the
over-excitation and exhaustion of brain cells and
muscle cells, including the heart. The presence of
carbon dioxide limits the formation of lactic acid.
This explains the “lactate paradox” of high
altitude exertion (lactic acid isn’t produced during
hypoxic exercise, since carbon dioxide is retained

wAMon £99 fia aun slaassy

SAN tad em mit lay or Ud oH
by the Haldane effect, in which the low oxygen

pressure fails to displace all of the ¢ ioxide

carried in the blood cells), and it explains why

lactic acid tends to be always present in the blood
in hypothyroidism, diabetes, and_obesity—insuffi-

cient carbon dioxide is produced, and lactic acid is
produced even _wi en deprivation or
stress. This kerobic glycolysis} the production of
lactic acid in the presence of oxygen, was defined
by Otto Warburg as the characteristic_cancer
metabolism. The “respiratory defect” in which the
Pasteur effect’ (suppression of lactic acid forma-
tion in the presence of oxygen) fails to operate,
consists largely of the failure to produce carbon
dioxide in the mitochondria.

Simple hyperventilation causes muscle spasms
and paresthesia (prickling of the skin), in an
experiment anyone can perform in a few minutes.
When a large amount of carbon dioxide is blown
off, the blood’s pH increases very slightly,
because of systemic adjustments. The “calcium
deficiency” theory of tetany would suggest that
increased alkalinity of the blood decreases the
“availability”? of ionized calcium, and that
(somehow) the “decreased availability of ionized
calcium” interrupts a relaxed state of the nerves
and muscles. At least, that’s the explanation that I
have heard many times, though I am stating it na
way that makes it sound fairly crazy. (See Stadler,
et al., 1995.) But, in fact, everywhere calcium is
studied, it is an activator, an excitant, a goad to
activity, when it enters the cytoplasm. The
evidence is that hyperventilation, which changes
the serum concentration of bicarbonate, magne-
sium, potassium, chloride, and phosphate, does
not change the serum calcium concentration,
while it does increase the intracellular calcium
content. (Fujimoto, et al., 1987; Stadler, et al.,
1995.)

The combination of the calcium ion, Ca”,
with the bicarbonate ton, HCO;, forms a very
soluble complex ion with a single positive charge.
In the saliva, there is more carbon dioxide than in
the mouth, and this situation is believed to explain
the fact that calcium which is dissolved in the
saliva tends to be deposited in an insoluble form
as it loses its solublizing bicarbonate, and the
insoluble form contributes to dental plaque.

(Presumably, this physical principle would
account for the deposition of calcium in the walls
of blood vessels or in any tissue which is
relatively deficient in carbon dioxide.) Similarly,

when serum bicarbonate decreases, the calcium
escapes from its soluble complex, and in effect
the available calcium—the forms of calcium

which are not bound to _ bicarbonate--has
increased, exactly the opposite of what the
Carlson school has argued.

Calcium, which is released into the cytoplasm
by the excitotoxins, triggers the release of fatty
acids, the activation of nerve and muscle, and the
release of a variety of transmitter substances, in a
cascade of excitatory processes, but at the same
time, it tends to impair mitochondrial metabolism,
and progressively tends to accumulate in
mitochondria, leading to their calcification death,
which is also promoted by the antirespiratory
effects of the unsaturated fatty acids and the lipid
peroxidation they promote. Iron and calcium both
tend to accumulate with aging or stress, and both
promote excitatory damage; bicarbonate contrib-
utes to keeping iron in its inactive state, and
probably has a similar effect against a broad
spectrum of excitatory substances. Histamine
release, nitric oxide, and carbon monoxide are
broadly involved in excitotoxic damage, and
carbon dioxide tends to be protective against
these, too.

Besides the simple excitotoxic killing of nerve
cells, the processes which impair carbon dioxide
production set in motion the long degenerative
process that ranges from diabetic lacticacidemia
to dementia. In Alzheimer’s disease, brain respi-
ratory metabolism is inhibited, creating a carbon
dioxide deficiency with an excess of lactic acid
and ammonia. Both Alzheimer’s disease .and
multiple sclerosis involve depressed brain
metabolism combined with an inflammatory
process. In any inflamed tissue, the enzyme beta-
glucuronidase is activated, and this enzyme
releases estrogen within the irritated cell, activat-
ing another sequence of neurotoxic processes.

In Alzheimer’s disease, two other outstanding
features are the tangles of microtubular matenal
left where cells have disintegrated, and the
amyloid plaques, which often form in

extracellular spaces and around blood vessels.

One of the forms of amyloid (amyloid is named

for its “starchy” appearance in stained slides) is

produced from the normal protein, transthyretin,
which carries vitamin A and thyroid hormone,

when this protein is “glycosylated,” by the

addition of sugar molecules. In this glycosylated —
form, it resembles a mutant protein, and binds to
the extracellular matrix. This glycosylation can
occur spontaneously and quickly, in the absence of
enzymes to catalyze it, when there is too much
glucose present, and when the protein’s amino

groups (usually lysines) are not protected by being
combined with carbon dioxide (as carbamino

groups). The carbamino groups form rapidly
when there is an abundance of carbon dioxide, but

also rapidly decompose in the absence of carbon

dioxide, allowing the protein to be structurally

degraded by the addition of sugar molecules.

Reactions very similar to these occur when the
products of lipid peroxidation attach themselves to
proteins.

Similar reactions, reflecting metabolic and
energetic conditions, can alter the structure and
organization of the neurctubules, leading to cell
death and the formation of the characteristic
neurofibrillary tangles.

W. F. Koch also found that excessive coagula-
tion was produced in the toxic antirespiratory
state. Carbon dioxide, probably by controlling the
availability of calcium, is an important protection
against abnormal clotting. The prevention of
clotting by carbon dioxide is thought to be part of
the explanation for its protective effect against
oxygen deprivation. (Pak and Sverchkova, 1987.)
Hyperventilation causes increased vascular ‘perme-
ability, leading to hemoconcentration when a large
portion of the blood’s water escapes into the
tissues. Vascular spasm, increased viscosity of
the concentrated blood, and disturbed coagulation
processes undoubtedly contribute to a wide range
of health problems, including stroke, heart attack,
and multiple sclerosis.

Since permanent high altitude residents
chronically retain a larger amount of carbon
dioxide in their tissue, I have looked for data on
the incidence of degenerative brain disease among
high altitude populations. In Kashmir, a

house-to-house study of more than 66,000 people
found that nearly one percent of the population
suffered from some neurological impairment,
such. as cerebral palsy, epilepsy, mental retarda-

tion or stroke. But no cases of Alzheimer’s
disease or multiple sclerosis were found. In India,
the incidence of these diseases is much lower than
in the U.S., but their absence in Kashmir is
remarkable.

If excess lactic acid in the brain tissue is’
characteristic of Alzheimer’s disease and multiple
sclerosis, then the “lactate paradox” suggests that —
a slightly higher retention of carbon dioxide in the
brain of Kashmir residents would counteract
chronic excitotoxic effects, suppressing the
stress metabolism which leads to the degenera-
tive brain diseases. Experimentally increased

carbon anse sends to cecnenee intracellular

“ ecobimleaninsiil ” is she neti anecenired

with increased altitude. Mortality from heart
disease, too, decreases with increasing altitude,
and the role of carbon dioxide in heart function is
very clear.

The neuroprotective steroids, progesterone
and pregnenolone, and magnesium and carbon
dioxide all protect against excitoxicity and the
related excess of intracellular calcium, while
promoting normal calcification. The thyroid —
hormone happens to promote the production of
these steroids and carbon dioxide, and the reten-
tion of magnesium. By the simple process of
avoiding the antithyroid substances, especially the
polyunsatured fatty acids, the degenerative
processes discussed here will be minimized.
Cyanide, another common component of foods
(usually in the bound form as cyanogenic
glycosides, in seeds, sprouts, nuts, and grains),
has specific antagonisms to carbon dioxide,
thyroid, and respiration.

REFERENCES

Kosm Biol Aviakosm Med 1987 Nov-Dec;21(6):43-7.
[Role of carbon dioxide in the correction of coagulation
hemostasis during hypoxia]. [Article in Russian] Pak GD,
Sverchkova VS. In acute animal experiments coagulation
hemostasis reactions and blood acid-base state were

investigated when dogs were breathing hypoxic (10% QO2) or
hypoxic-hypercapnic (10% O02, 5% CO2) gas mixtures.
When given the hypoxic mixture, activation of blood coagu-
lation was accompanied by depression of anti-coagulatory
and fibrinolytic properties. These changes developed
together with distinct hypoxemia, respiratory alkalosis and
secondary metabolic acidosis. When given the hypoxic-
hypercapnic mixture, no hypercoagulation occurred
which can be explained by higher (than on the hypoxic
mixture) paOQ2, lack of disorders in acid-base equilibrium
and in oxygen supply. It is believed that the ability of
carbon dioxide to maintain relative noormocoagulation
when added to the hypoxic mixture is one of the factors

that increase tolerance to hypoxia.

JAMA 1980 Jul 4;244(1):61-2. The effects of bicarbonate
on blood coagulation. Wong DW, Mishkin FS, Tanaka TT. The
anticoagulant effects of sodium and potassium bicarbonate were
investigated with use of fresh human whole blood obtained from
normal healthy volunteers. Results from prothrombin and thrombin
clotting time determinations demonstrated that bicarbonate can
interfere with the clotting process. Clinical data obtained from
patients who received intravenous administration of sodium
bicarbonate supported these findings.

Nippon Geka Gakkai Zassht 1987 Jul,88(7):864-71. [Eryth-
rocyte calcium and pH levels during postoperative tetany
following radical operations for thyroid cancer]. Fujimoto M,
Mizuno S. To investigate the mechanism of postoperative
tetany, erythrocyte calcjum and pH were consecutively
measured in 15 patients who underwent total removal and
subsequent autotransplantation of parathyroid glands at the
surgery for thyroid cancer. Of these, 8 patients presented
tetany signs, but the other 7 patients had no symptoms. In the
non-tetanized group, the concentration of erythrocyte calcium
decreased by 33.2% and 46.0% on the 3rd and 5th postopera-
tive day, respectively. On the other hand, it increased by 49.8%
and 34.6%, respectively, in the tetanized group, showing a
significantly different concentration between two groups. No
significant differences were observed, however, in the serum
calcium level at any time between two groups. The erythrocyte
pH as well as the plasma pH in the tetanized group was signifi-
cantly higher on the 3rd postoperative day, than that in the
non-tetanized group. These results suggest the possibility that the
elevated cellular calcium content is more closely linked with
postoperative tetany than the serum calcium level, and that the
elevated cellular pH as well as plasma pH is another causative
factor in evoking tetany.

Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax 1995, Mar 21;84(12):328-34.
[Electrolyte changes during and after voluntary hyperventila-
tion]. Stadler G, Steurer J, Dur P, Binswanger U, Vetter W.
Paresthesia and tetanic finger cramps during hyperventilation-
induced respiratory alkalosis are believed to derive from a
pH-dependent decrease of ionized serum calcium. In the study
reported here, ionized serum calcium, total calcium and total
protein were measured during a three-minute hyperventilation
period in ten volunteers. During hyperventilation finger pares-
thesias appeared in all probands without proof of any signifi-
cant change in ionized serum calcium (1.26 +/- 0.05 mmol/l at
the end of the three-minute hyperventilation period). Total
protein increased as a consequence of hyperventilation-induced
transient hemo-concentration. Paresthesias and tetanic finger
cramps during the three-minute hyperventilation could not be
related to changes of ionized serum calcium; however the other

electrolytes, Le. sodium, magnesium, potassium, chloride,
phosphate and bicarbonate, showed, with the exception of
sodium, significant changes.

Dtsch Med Wochenschr 1997 Jul 11;122(28-29).887-9 [The
effect of short-term hyperventilation on the concentration of
ionized serum calcium]. [Article in German] Steurer, J, Pei, P,
Vetter, W.

J Clin Invest 1975 Jan,$5(1):149-56. Inhibition of carbonic
anhydrase by parathyroid hormone and cyclic AMP in rat
renal cortex in vitro. Beck N, Kim KS, Wolak M, Davis BB.

N Engl J Med 1973 Jul 19;289(3):141-6. Guanidine deriya-
tives in medicine. Davidoff, F.

Dan Med Bull 1973 Jun;20(3):65-79 Biguanides and lactate
metabolism: a review. Hernann, L.S.

J Clin Invest 1968 Oct;47(10):2331-43. Effects of
guanidine derivatives on mitochondrial function. L Phenethyl-
biguanide inhibition of respiration in mitochondria from
guinea pig and rat tissues. Davidoff EF.

Neurosci Lett 1993 Jul 23;157(2):123-6. N-methyl-D-
aspartate receptors contribute to guanidinosuccinate-induced
convulsions in mice. D'Hooge R, Pei YQ, De Deyn PP.

J Neurosci 1996 Feb 1,16(3):1193-202. Potentiation of
neuronal NMDA response induced by dehydroepiandrosterone
and its suppression by progesterone: effects mediated via sigma
receptors. Bergeron R, de Montigny C, Debonnel G.

Am J Hypertens 1998 Oct;11(10):1199-207. Renal perfusion
pressure is an important determinant of sodium and calcium
excretion in DOC-salt hypertension. Brands MW, Hall JE.

Am J Med Sci 1998 Nov;316(5):321-8. Recent insights into
the coordinate regulation of body water and divalent mineral
ion metabolism. Baum MA, Harms HW.

J Neurosci 1993 Nov,13(11):4861-7] Intracellular calcium
levels and calcium fluxes in the CA1 region of the rat hippo-
campal slice during in vitro ischemia: relationship to electro-
paysiological celi damage. Lobner D, Lipton P.

Biochem Soc Trans 1994 Nov,22(4):3988. Histamine
release from mast cells by polyamines: an NMDA receptor-
mediated event? Purcell WM, Doyle KM, Bagea L, Derks M.

J Am Coll Nutr 1998 Aug;17(4):401-3. Parenteral calcium
gluconate supplementation: efficacious or potentially
disastrous? Canada T, Albrecht J.

J Neurosci Res 1998 Jan 15;51(2):133-8. Roles of neuroac-
tive amino acids in ammonia neurotoxicity. Albrecht J..

Neurochem Int 1994 Mar,24(3):215-20. Ontogenetic differ-
ences in convulsive action and cerebral uptake of uremic
guanidino compounds in juvenile mice. D'Hooge R, Pei YQ,
Marescau B, De Deyn PP.

Pediatr Res 1997 Jul;42(1):24-9. Effect of carbon dioxide on
cerebral metabolism during hypoxia-ischemia in the immature
rat. Vannucci RC, Bricklacher RM, Vannucci SJ.

Baird, S.L. Jr., Karreman, G., Mueller, H., Szent-Gyorgyi, A.,
“Jonic semipermeability as a bulk property,” Proc. Nat. Acad.
Sci. 43, 705-708, 1957.

A doko OK OK

