PROGESTERONE
IN

ORTHOMOLECULAR
MEDICINE

By Raymond Peat, PhD

P.O. Box 5764
Eugene, Oregon 97405
CONTENTS

Progesterone's Biological Generality.............0....::ceceeee 2
SterOid........ oc cccccsescseeesseeeseevscseeaeeeseseenseeeeseeeeeseseetseeeees 16
Thyroid...............ccccccceeeeeeeeeev eres 15s Seon UREN ERENERRCERESE ie
Warburg's Cancer Theory,

Cachexia and Thyroid Therapy..............00000.....0::::0000 27
The Cervical Cancer Scare.................... nsnecteannkiadseeeae 3]
MIEHOPAUSE AIK 35 CAUSES o.ccctecveccusateetemnntaieaenenmnns 34
Dosage of Progesterone............... eae aaa 39
The Progesterone Deceptions. .....................ccccceeeeeeseeeeees 43
Origins of Progesterone Therapy.........................::0:::066 5]

Transdermal Progesterone for
Premenstrual Syndrome.........................c0c00eeseeeeeeeeeeees 57

A. List of Signs and Symptoms that Respond
to Progesterone Therapy...........0.........00cccccceeescsceeeeeeees 60

An Efficient Oral Therapy.....................:.:.:cccceeeeeeeeeeeeees 63

PROGESTERONE IN ORTHOMOLECULAR MEDICINE
COPYRIGHT 1993 RAYMOND PEAT

I
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

PROGESTERONE'S BIOLOGICAL GENERALITY

1. Intrinsic general properties.

All of the steroid functions, except those of estrogen
and testosterone, are included, though weakly, in the
progesterone molecule itself. These include lysosome
stabilization, salt regulation, blood sugar elevation, and
anesthesia (or, in physiological amounts, modulation of
nerve functions). It is unusual among the steroids in
promoting enlargement, rather than atrophy, of the thymus
gland. Progesterone, like testosterone is anti-estrogenic.

A weak hormone activity in the absence of the
stronger hormone will act as a substitute, but in the
presence of the stronger hormone will weaken the strong
hormone's effect by competition or "dilution" at the point of
action, and possibly by suppressing the trophic pituitary
agent which regulates synthesis. By thus opposing both
deficiencies and excesses, such a hormone will tend to
protect against pathological extremes. There is, for
example, supposed to be competition between progesterone
and aldosterone for the "aldosterone receptors" which cause
water retention by the kidneys, so that in many situations,
progesterone will relieve edema; but when the adrenal
cortex is removed or fails to function (as in Addison's
disease), progesterone will promote relatively normal
retention of sodium and water, keeping the individual alive
as long as large doses are given regularly.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Some hormones which are both progestins and
anti-testosterones seem to work both at the tissue
"receptor" level, and at the pituitary level. Though
progesterone itself will suppress menopausal pituitary
gonadotrophins, and (my observations) reduces excessive
facial hair, it has not been found to have anti-testosterone
effects in men when used in low doses, and in appropriate
doses it can improve sexual functions in some impotent men
who are deficient in progesterone. Pregnenolone (produced
from cholesterol in the mitochondria), which is the
precursor to progesterone and other steroids, has been used
successfully to restore fertility (sperm count and motility,
and, according to the wives--libido) in men.

All of the natural steroids have functions that
overlap to some extent--e.g., testosterone has some
progestational function--but progesterone's generality is the
most remarkable.

2. Steroid precursor function.

The second aspect of progesterone's biological
generality, besides its intrinsic hormonal activity, is its role
as precursor for all of the other steroid hormones (see
chart). When consumed in food (e.g., butter, brains, milk,
Ovaries--some cultures eat pork ovaries, many eat
sea-urchin ovaries), it, like cholesterol, only more
efficiently, enters the cycle of steroid synthesis near the
beginning, so that it is a raw material, allowing normal
amounts of the other hormones to be produced. This aspect
of progesterone distinguishes it most strongly from the
other progestins (e.g., medroxyprogesterone), which have
had atoms introduced at unusual positions to inhibit
metabolism and prolong activity (as well as to create a
patentable and thus highly profitable substance). When we
eat protein, we support the production of all the peptide
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

hormones; likewise, natural progesterone (and
pregnenolone, which is also found in brains, endocrine
glands, and probably skin) serves to allow the body to
produce an appropriate and balanced amount of all the other
steroid hormones.

3. Anti-estrogen functions.

A third aspect of progesterone's generality is a little
less clear than its intrinsic generality and its function as a
general steroid precursor, because this third form has to do
with its overall antagonism to estrogen, and gains
significance only to the extent that we see estrogen as
having a very broad physiological role--for males as well as
for females. I will just mention some of the many effects of
estrogen, and some reasons for its ubiquity.

Estrogen causes water retention, even when dietary salt is
restricted; hyposmotic blood has been observed under
estrogen influence.

Estrogen causes "erasure" of memory, as does prolactin,
which is formed under the influence of estrogen.

Estrogen promotes the formation of prolactin, which
normally increases with aging and stress, and which is a
known contributor to osteoporosis.

Estrogen causes hypoxia at many levels--pulmonary
diffusion, intracellular metabolism, and various points
between.

Estrogen synergizes with insulin, lowering blood sugar,
promoting fat synthesis.

Estrogen opposes actions of thyroxin, elevates the bound
proportion, and blocks its secretion from the gland.
Estrogen causes reproductive aging, by exhausting neurons
which regulate the pituitary.

Estrogen contributes to the risk of miscarriage and
infertility.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Estrogen retards prenatal brain growth.

Estrogen promotes histamine release.

Estrogen shifts the balance of prostaglandins and cyclic
nucleotides, important cellular regulators.

Estrogen and its metabolites are carcinogenic, in every
sense of the word.

Estrogen promotes development of fibroids and many other
kinds of tumor, including pituitary prolactin-secreting
tumor.

Estrogen promotes blood clotting and increases embolism
incidence.

Estrogen synergizes with adrenaline in causing vascular
spasm.

Estrogen alters blood lipids and promotes gall bladder
disease.

Estrogen accelerates the aging of collagen.

Estrogen mimics the shock phase of the stress reaction.
Estrogen is produced by many tissues--possibly by every
tissue under certain circumstances. Stress hormones
promote liver synthesis of estrogen.

Estrogen lowers the seizure threshold of nerve cells,
increasing susceptibility to epileptic convulsions.

Estrogen shrinks the thymus, and contributes to many
auto-immune conditions and tissue alterations including
osteoarthritis.

Men and women, especially as they age, are susceptible to
liver damage from toxins which can cause elevated estrogen
levels by interfering with metabolism and excretion.
Malnutrition can cause signs of high estrogen.

Various physical factors, including ionizing radiation, mimic
estrogen actions.

Many environmental  pollutants--phenolic compounds,
dioxins, PCBs, polycyclic hydrocarbons, chlorinated
hydrocarbons, DDT, etc.--are estrogenic.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Estrogen promotes the retention of iron, which accumulates
with aging and promotes the free-radical damage caused by
stress.

In relating progesterone's effects to those of
estrogen, we should avoid being misled by the opinions
expressed in many textbooks, describing symptoms of the
luteal phase of the menstrual cycle as symptoms "caused by
progesterone." For example, many medical books promote
the erroneous idea that progesterone causes edema, because
edema often occurs during the luteal phase of the cycle,
which is too often conceptualized as "the progesterone
dominance phase." Actually, this is the time when the
estrogen/progesterone ratio frequently reaches its
pathological height, for four common reasons:

1. failure to eliminate estrogen;

2. failure to produce enough progesterone;
3. overproduction of estrogen;

4. excessive metabolism of progesterone.

Failure of the liver to metabolize or detoxify
estrogen is equivalent to the older idea of an "elevated
kidney threshold for estrogen," which was proposed as the
cause of the "pre-menstrual syndrome."’ Probably the main
reason for liver sluggishness (apart from the direct action of
estrogen itself, discussed in liver monographs, and often
noticed in the post-ovulatory increase of susceptibility to
intoxication by alcohol or other chemicals) is low thyroid,
which itself is related to estrogen--about five times more
women have thyroid abnormalities than men. Protein
deficiency has been shown to cause the liver to fail to
detoxify estrogen.’

Thyroid therapy normally increases assimilation of
nutrients and stimulates synthesis of steroids though it
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

lowers estrogen by promoting its metabolism in the liver.
However, it increases metabolic activity systemically and
can exacerbate a nutritional deficiency or a failure of
steroidogenic tissue, so thyroid therapy should always be
accompanied by nutritional optimization, and sometimes
should be used with a steroid, preferably progesterone, to
promote adrenal and other glandular function. Thyroid
hormone is one of the essential factors for the conversion of
cholesterol to progesterone. Progesterone promotes its
own synthesis, and provides stability during adaptation.
Failure of the corpus luteum to produce adequate
quantities of progesterone has been observed under various
circumstances. A lack of vitamin A, and reduced circulation
resulting from the prostaglandin F, (resulting from estrogen
action, or from uterine irritation) have been proposed as
causes of luteal failure.’ There is no doubt that vitamin A is
essential for the conversion of cholesterol to progesterone;
its action can be competitively blocked by an excess of
carotene. Luteolysis has been demonstrated to result from
uterine irritation by a foreign object.* A uterine infection
probably would have the same effect. (Penicillin has been
found to relieve PMS, but the mechanism by which it
increases progesterone and decreases estrogen and
cortisone isn't clear, and probably involves endotoxin and
the liver.) The IUD often causes the same kind of
symptoms as the oral contraceptive pill--obesity, depression,
etc., and this seems to be the result of progesterone
deficiency from luteolysis. An excess of prolactin, which is
now recognized as a sequel to use of the estrogen
contraceptive pill (estrogen induces mitoses in the prolactin
secreting pituitary cells) has been found to block
progesterone synthesis. (Incidentally, Korenchevsky
demonstrated 50 years ago that progesterone would cause
regression of the estrogen-induced pituitary tumor.)
Logically, since it isn't desirable to get pregnant during
stress, the stress hormones ACTH and cortisone inhibit
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

progesterone production. Lack of sunlight, short
photoperiod, or staying indoors can probably contribute to a
progesterone deficiency, since both progesterone and
testosterone synthesis (the latter in men) are increased in
summer,

Excessive production of estrogen can result from a
large mass of adipose tissue, or from a sick liver.” Olfactory
stimuli seem to increase estrogen production in female mice,
sufficient to induce spontaneous abortion; pheromonal
activation of estrogen synthesis in humans might be another
possible cause of estrogen excess. ° Stress is probably a
common cause of elevated estrogen especially when it 1s
prolonged enough to cause significant protein loss. Stress
also stimulates liver estrogen synthesis.’

Excessive metabolism of progesterone, e.g., by its
conversion to cortisol and other anti-stress hormones, can
probably explain the increasingly common observations of
"athlete's amenorrhea" and the development of excess facial
hair in some women working under pressure (the alternate
hormonal disturbance in stress appears to result in obesity."
Besides losing the effects of progesterone on _ the
endometrium, pituitary gonadotrophins would be increased,
and would drive various synthetic pathways at a higher rate,
shifting the ratio of progesterone to other hormones, but I
do not think the ovaries have been studied very much during
ordinary stress. (In the stress of ionizing radiation, the
ovaries produce excessive estrogen; with the stress of high
levels of gonadotrophins, they tend to be cancerized.)
While large doses of progesterone have been shown to have
anti-stress effects without harming the adrenals (and
probably protecting them, by lowering the demand for
adrenal hormones), large doses of estrogen were found to
destroy certain areas of the adrenal cortex,’ possibly in a
reaction similar to luteolysis by estrogen.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

4. Effects on development.

The three aspects of progesterone's biological
generality discussed above disregard the time dimension,
1.e., the effect of progesterone on the developing organism,
which is, according to popular belief (deriving largely from
its name), its only role. All of the points discussed above
are relevant to the developing organism. For example, the
fetus is highly dependent on glucose for growth--especially
brain growth--and the oxygen supply and maternal
metabolism both affect the glucose supply.

Animal studies have shown that an excess of
estrogen, late in the gestation period, like oxygen
deprivation and insulin-induced hypoglycemia, can cause
brain damage, in the form of reduced cell number and brain
weight. Stress during pregnancy can produce (apparently
hormonal) defects in the offspring.” L. C. Strong showed
transgenerational effects, apparently acting through
hormone balance, in his cancer-prone (high-estrogen) mice
which were treated with a liver extract (personal
communication). Many older’ studies showed
transgenerational effects which I believe can be traced to
gestational hormonal modification, affecting metabolism at a
variety of levels, including the liver. For example, feeding
thymus to rats for several generations caused each
generation to be more precocious in development. The
known _transgenerational influences of _ starvation
(Zamenhoff, et al.," with rats, and more recently--1978--in
human studies) are similar to the first generation effects of
estrogen or hypoglycemia. I suspect that these effects are
part of a general system of physiologically adjusting the
metabolism of offspring to the availability of nutrients.

9
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

One of the physiological effects of progesterone is
tts support of the thymus (opposing the effects of
glucocorticoids and sex steroids). In animal experiments
(dog and rat), results so far indicate that the same types of
precocity are induced by progesterone in these animals as
were reported for thymus feeding.’* Dalton's (and others’)
studies in humans show the same generalized precocity,
except that in humans the intellectual precocity is the most
noticeable. Rat studies show that increased prenatal
exposure to progesterone increases rats' learning ability and
the thickness of their cerebral cortex, but the scientific
community's lack of interest in these studies has been great.
The owner of an afghan dog which gestated with extra
progesterone commented that the dog had learned to
retrieve a stick by watching another dog, while "normal"
afghans dislike learning anything, especially retrieving
(though they have a remarkable geographic memory).

Since the brain is dependent on glucose for its
growth, the ability of progesterone to promote maternal fat
metabolism and to spare glucose (elevating blood glucose)
for fetal use is a logical part of its role as a gestational
hormone. Other pregnancy hormones, including "placental
lactogen," also promote elevation of blood glucose.

[ propose that there is a "developmental trajectory"
(analogous to a ballistic trajectory) which is set by the
availability of biological energy during gestation, and that
we could, by measuring brain weight and the ratio of brain
weight to body weight during gestation, predict (given
stable post-natal conditions for growth) such things as the
ages at puberty, full growth, and approximate lifespan.
Good prenatal conditions would increase the rate of
development (IQ, etc.), but would delay maturity, allowing
achievement of a higher level of development by the rapid
and prolonged development of higher abilities. Bright

10
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

people develop faster than dull people, but bright monkeys,
at first, develop even faster (see chart). Our species
characteristics would include setting the angle of our
developmental trajectory, but the availability of biological
energy during gestation determines the rate of ascent and
the "altitude" achieved, as the explosive charge determines
velocity and altitude of a ballistic trajectory. The effect of
nutrition on brain size is known, as are the relationships
between relative brain weight and life-span’ and between
rate of sexual development and life-span (Strong, and
others), so what I am suggesting is simply that the amount
of energy early in life might organize in an orderly way the
timing of, and quality of, development throughout the rest
of one's life.

A "Medical News" item in a 1976 issue of the
J.A.M.A." reports a study showing that progesterone
probably plays a critical role in preventing rejection of the
fetus by the mother. In reviewing the scientific and medical
literature, I have found no side effects attributed to natural
progesterone, except for sometimes altering the menstrual
rhythm temporarily. Its use before and during pregnancy is
associated with a reduced incidence of birth defects. (Since
all of the drugs used to treat epilepsy are known to cause
birth defects, it would certainly seem reasonable to take
advantage of progesterone's anti-seizure effect, especially
during pregnancy. It wouldn't be hard to ascribe liability for
the prenatal injury of thousands of people, to the
pharmaceutical industry and regulatory agencies, who seem
to conspire to keep this information away from the medical
profession.) Some publications fail to distinguish between
natural progesterone and the frequently harmful synthetic
progestins.

Some recent animal studies are showing that
prenatal progesterone increased body size, but even more, it

1]
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

increased brain size, for an improved brain/body ratio. First,
it was established that good prenatal nutrition produced big,
healthy babies with big heads, high intelligence, and good
disposition. Then, experiments with rats showed that
prenatal treatment with prolactin, which — stimulates
progesterone synthesis in that species (but blocks it in
humans) produced large brained, intelligent animals (95th
percentile for brain size and intelligence). It has since been
established that a large brain is associated with a long life
span.

Prenatal stress produces many minor physical
"stigmata," and these have been shown to be associated
with hyperactivity. Excess estrogen (and other toxins, and
associated deficiencies) reduces brain size and damages
behavior. (In animals, the effects of prenatal stress can be
passed on to the third generation. )

Progesterone opposes estrogen, and promotes
prenatal nutrition. Dalton's studies of babies whose mothers
received natural progesterone showed greatly improved
intelligence.” Another researcher, deliberately attempting
to improve intelligence (Dalton simply intended to treat
PMS and toxemia of pregnancy) claims "his" babies have a
200 IQ. Other investigators find that progesterone babies
have strong, serene, independent characters.

There is increasing recognition that prenatal
conditions, whether good or bad, can be passed on to at
least one subsequent generation. A reduced ability to
produce progesterone is probably often a consequence of
prenatal stress, which can lead to pregnancy difficulties, and
another stress-injured generation. I feel that progesterone
can reverse the trend toward more hyperactive and brain
damaged children, and that it can make a great contribution
to the mental and physical health of future generations.

12
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

5. Progesterone and magnesium.

In considering the general biological effects of
progesterone, it is interesting to compare some of its
functions with those of the magnesium ion, and to contrast
them with the effects of calcium and estrogen.’ Uptake of
Magnesium is promoted by thyroid, and progesterone
promotes thyroid function, while tending to block the
stress-induced loss of magnesium. Estrogen increases the
uptake of calcium.

Blood clotting (especially excessive): promoted by estrogen
and calcium, restrained by magnesium and progesterone.
Blood sugar: depressed by estrogen and calcium, sustained
by progesterone and magnesium.

Kidney function, diuresis: promoted by magnesium and
progesterone, decreased by estrogen; excess calcium
appears to damage kidneys.

Histamine release: decreased by progesterone and
magnesium, increased by estrogen, and calcium probably
facilitates it.

Phagocytosis and other immune functions: increased by
magnesium and progesterone, decreased by estrogen;
calcium is involved in triggering thymocyte death.
Glucagon: magnesium promotes, calcium inhibits.

Insulin: magnesium and progesterone restrain its secretion,
calcium and estrogen promote it.

Vascular spasms: decreased by progesterone and
magnesium, promoted by estrogen and calcium.

Vascular tone: stabilized by progesterone and magnesium,
often decreased by estrogen, possibly acting through
histamine, leading to the tendency of blood to pool in the
legs. Estrogen is believed to contribute to varicose veins.
Nerve stabilization or anesthesia: magnesium and
progesterone are anesthetic in very large amounts, and are

13
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

protective inhibitors in physiological amounts. Calcium
opposes the anesthetic effect of magnesium, and is always
involved in toxic or excitotoxic cell death. Estrogen even in
physiological amounts is nerve-exciting, and eventually
contributes to the excitotoxic death of brain cells.

Hans Selye demonstrated that calcification of
various tissues (kidneys, blood vessels, and skin, for
example) could be produced by interactions of stress and
hormones. Selye and his associates, and F. Z. Meerson's
group in Russia, have demonstrated numerous toxic
interactions of iron, calcium, and unsaturated fats.
Magnesium, vitamin E, thyroid, and progesterone tend to
protect against those toxic effects.

REFERENCES

1. Katharina Dalton, The Premenstrual Syndrome and
‘Progesterone Therapy, Year Book Medical Publishers, Inc.,
Chicago, 1977.

2. Alexander Lipschutz, Steroid Hormones and Tumors,
Williams and Wilkins Company, Baltimore, 1950.

3. Constance Martin, Textbook of Endocrine Physiology,
Oxford University Press, 1976.

4. §. N. Chatterjee, et al, "Effect of intrauterine
contraceptive suture on corpora lutea of Guinea pigs,"
Indian Journal of Experimental Biology 9: 105, 1971.

5. J. M. Grodin, et al., "Origin of estrogen in the
menopause," J. of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism
36(2): 205-214, 1973.

6. C.D. Turner and J. T. Bagnara, General Endocrinology,
Saunders Publishing Co., 1971.

7. C. Martin, op. cit. page 58.

8. Mother Jones Magazine, 1978.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

9. D. J. Kimeldorf and A. L. Soderwall, "Changes in the
adrenal cortical zones by ovarian hormones,"
Endocrinology 41(1): 21-26.

10. L. R. Herrenkohl, Psychology Department, Temple
University.

11. S. Zamenhoff, et al., "DNA (cell number) and protein in
neonatal rat brain: alteration by timing of maternal dietary
protein restriction," J. of Nutrition 101: 1265-1270, 1971.
12. Ciba Foundation Symposium, The Thymus,
Experimental and Clinical Studies, Melbourne, 1975.

13. G. A. Sacher, "Molecular versus systemic theories on,
the genesis of aging," Experimental Gerontology 3: 265,
1968.

14. J. of the Amer. Medical Assoc. 236(8). 905, August 23,
1976.

15. K. Dalton, op. cit., chapter X VIL.

16. Hans Selye, Encyclopedia of Endocrinology vols. 1-4,
Franks Publishing Co., Montreal, 1943.

17. R. Peat, Nutrition for Women, Blake College, Eugene,
Oregon, 1978.

Progesterone
Normal person
Other
Animals ,~ ¥

TIME —- *DEATH

MENTAL ENERGY
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

STEROIDS

This type of molecule might be the most common
carbon compound in the universe. It is made by single
celled organisms, by plants, and by animals, and has many
kinds of function. The steroid hormones are involved in all
aspects of animal physiology, and overlap with control
functions of the nervous system, peptide hormones,
metabolites, prostaglandins, cyclic nucleotides, etc. (1
suspect that their ubiquity reflects a special kind of physical
influence on biological water.) Sometimes people speak of
"steroids" when they mean glucocorticoids such as cortisol
or a synthetic like dexamethasone, or, among athletes, when
they mean anabolic steroids or synthetic androgens; and so
it is common to associate "steroids" with harmful side
effects. All foods contain steroids and sterols (a major type,
containing an alcohol group and a side-chain) some of
which are beneficial and some of which are toxic or
allergenic.

In animals, cholesterol is the basic sterol molecule,
which is massively converted into other substances,
including the steroid hormones. (In plants, cholesterol in
very small amounts appears to serve as a hormone.)
Thyroid hormone and vitamin A are required for this
conversion. The first step occurs in the energy-producing
mitochondrion, where cholesterol loses its side-chain and is
slightly oxidized, producing pregnenolone. Being less fat
soluble than cholesterol, pregnenolone leaves the
mitochondrion, so it tends not to inhibit its own synthesis.
Rather, it seems to stimulate its own synthesis, though this
isn't as clearly established as in the case of progesterone.

Depending on the tissue, pregnenolone will be
converted by enzymes in the cytoplasm into either

16
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

progesterone or DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone). The fact
that progesterone (and probably pregnenolone) stimulates
its own synthesis means that taking it does not suppress the
body's ability to synthesize it, as happens with cortisol.
Sometimes, one dose or a few doses can restore the body's
ability to produce enough of its own.

Progesterone also allows the thyroid gland to
secrete its hormones, especially when the thyroid function
has been inhibited by estrogen. Since the thyroid hormone
is needed to produce progesterone, a supplement of either
tends to normalize both thyroid and progesterone
production.

Progesterone and DHEA are the precursors for the
other more specialized steroid hormones, including cortisol,
aldosterone (sodium-retaining hormone), estrogen, and
testosterone. The formation of these other hormones is
tightly regulated, so that taking the precursor will correct a
deficiency of a specialized hormone, but will not create an
excess. At least in the case of progesterone, an excess tends
to balance or neutralize an excess of the specialized
hormone, so it has been described as _ having
anti-androgenic, anti-estrogen, anti-aldosterone, and
anti-cortisol functions.

Many steroids have a protective ("catatoxic") action
against a wide variety of poisons. Some of the quick effects
(e.g., within 10 minutes) of progesterone and pregnenolone
probably represent a catatoxic action, as well as a
neutralizing or balancing of excessive estrogen or cortisol.
Improved metabolic efficiency, sparing oxygen and glucose,
will have a quick effect in reducing edema.

During pregnancy, very large amounts of
progesterone are made. It protects and stabilizes practically

17
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

all functions of both the mother and the fetus.
Progesterone, glucose and the thyroid hormones powerfully
influence the brain development and intelligence of the baby,
probably by influencing both the number and the size of
brain cells, and the quality of their functioning.

Part of progesterone's protective effect is a result of
its quieting effect on cells. For example, it tends to prevent
seizure activity in brain cells. During childbirth, its normal
function is to act as an anesthetic. When the level of
estrogen is too high, progesterone can't achieve this effect.
In a non-pregnant person, it is important to determine the
minimum effective dose by taking only a few drops at a
time, and repeating this small dose about every 20 minutes
until symptoms have been controlled. Otherwise, serious
"drunkenness" can be produced, with loss of coordination,
and even unconsciousness.

The only solvent for progesterone which isn't toxic
and which will dissolve an effective quantity, is vitamin E.
In this form, it can be absorbed through the skin or other
membranes, or can be taken orally. Taken orally, it is
absorbed as chylomicrons, going into the general circulation
(as vitamin E does), instead of to the liver where it would be
prepared for excretion. In this form, therefore, it is fully
and quickly available to all tissues. It is approximately 20
times more powerful in its action than other preparations, so
it is important to use it in physiological quantities, rather
than in the huge doses commonly given rectally or by
injection. Ten or 20 mg. is often an effective dose, though
people with low thyroid or high estrogen sometimes use 50
to 100 mg. per day. In the customary 10% solution, one
drop contains about 3 mg. progesterone, and 1 ml. (1/4 tsp.)
contains 100 mg. The first dose should never be more than
15 mg.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Pregnenolone, taken orally, does nothing noticeable
to a healthy animal or person, but if the stress-related
hormones are elevated, they return to normal when
pregnenolone is taken. The brain contains much more
pregnenolone, DHEA, and progesterone than do other
organs or the blood, and these levels decrease progressively
with age. Older people are more likely to feel an effect
from pregnenolone, than are young people. A tenth of a
gram is a reasonable first dose, though some people seem to
need as much as | gram per day, possibly because of poor
absorption. (The amount produced daily in a healthy young
adult is roughly 30 mg.)

Normalizing the stress hormones with pregnenolone
often seems to have the effect of correcting the function of
the thyroid gland, probably because it is suppressed by
stress. Since pregnenolone is the precursor for
progesterone and DHEA (and ail the other steroid
hormones), it often has the same effects as progesterone or
DHEA, and it has the advantage that it allows the body to
produce just an optimum amount of those hormones. In
very old people, or people with special enzyme deficiencies,
it might be necessary to supplement all three to achieve their
normal physiological concentration in the tissues.

Pregnenolone and progesterone are known to
protect nerves against the damaging effects of the
"excitotoxins,” which activate nerve cells to the point of
cumulative injury during stress and fatigue. The need for
pregnenolone is probably what is described as "agitated
depression," in which the person feels unable to cope with
ordinary life, and when the body is unable to produce
enough pregnenolone, the nervous-physiological distress
leads to increased production of cortisol. The clinical
depression, which so typically involves elevated cortisol
production, is probably primarily a pregnenolone deficiency.

19
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

The active fraction of the thyroid hormone,
triiodothyronine, or liothyronine (T,), is essential for the
conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone, as is the retinol
form of vitamin A. Butyric acid is known to facilitate the
entry of T, into the mitochondrion.

Since progesterone and pregnenolone protect
against the excitotoxins which damage neurons, and
estrogen and cortisol promote excitotoxic damage, it seems
reasonable to see this opposition as relating to their known
physiological actions. For example, estrogen damages
memory, and pregnenolone restores memory in old animals.
Although the excitotoxins might not be involved in other
organs, I suspect that something analogous (possibly the
cyclic nucleotide ratio) is involved in the opposite effects of
these substances on, for example, the thymus, vascular tone,
and liver function.

20)
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Factors in Steroid Synthesis

LDL Cholesterol
Thyroid/Vitamin A

Conversion Blockers: §{ Conversion Promoters:

Mitochondrion
Estrogen <Vifry “Thyroid
X-Rays . Light
Ultraviolet Vitamin A
PUFA ("EFA") Vitamin E
Iron Copper
Pregnenolone
DHEA Progesterone

Estrogen Testosterone Cortisol Aldosterone

Structural integrity of the mitochondna ts essential for functional
respiration and steroid synthesis. Coconut oil, thyroid hormone,
pregnenolone, and progesterone stabilize mitochondrial structure.

ra
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

THYROID

Measuring the amount of thyroid in the blood isn't a
good way to evaluate adequacy of thyroid function, since
the response of tissues to the hormone can be suppressed
(for example, by unsaturated fats).

In the 1930s accurate diagnosis was made by
evaluating a variety of indications, including basal oxygen
consumption, serum cholesterol level, pulse rate,
temperature, carotenemia, bowel function, and quality of
hair and skin. A good estimate can be made using only the
temperature and pulse rate. (Pulse rate should be thought
of as an indicator of the rate of blood circulation, meaning
that the strength of the pulse should increase with the rate; a
rapid but weak, shock-like pulse gives useful information,
but has a different meaning. )

Oral or armpit temperature, in the morning before
getting out of bed, should be around 98 degrees F, and it
should rise to 98.6° by mid-morning. This is not valid if you
sleep under an electric blanket, or if the weather is hot and
humid. A person who is hypothyroid produces heat at a
low rate, but doesn't lose it at the normal rate, since there is
less sweating, and the skin is relatively cool. Many
hypothyroid people compensate with high adrenalin
production (sometimes 40 times higher than normal), and
this tends to keep the skin cool, especially on the hands,
feet, and nose. The high adrenalin is the consequence of
low blood glucose, so a feeding of carbohydrate, such as a
glass of orange juice, will sometimes lower the pulse rate
momentarily. Since thyroid is essential for producing
progesterone, and progesterone is "thermogenic" in the
sense of setting the temperature control system higher, the

22
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

body sometimes maintains a subnormal temperature even in
warm weather, Healthy populations have an average resting
pulse rate of about 85 per minute. Especially in hot weather
it is useful to consider both temperature and pulse rate.

The Achilles tendon reflex is another quick way to
estimate thyroid function. This reflex is used because of the
insignificant weight of the toes in relation to contraction of
the gastrocnemius muscle. The T (repolarization) wave on
the electrocardiogram is a similar indicator of the rate of
energy production. Thumping the Achilles tendon causes
the muscle to contract (unless it is already in a
semi-contracted state, which isn't uncommon). The
contraction consumes energy, and the muscle can't relax
until enough energy has been produced to restore the
threshold and the readiness for a new contraction.
(Creatinine levels are a vague indicator of the activity of this
system, and are often a little low in hypothyroidism. )

If energy production is efficient, relaxation is faster
than the passive return motion of the foot, so the foot
swings freely back to its original position, and over-shoots
slightly, causing a slight swinging action. In hypo-
thyroidism, the foot returns as if controlled by a pneumatic
door-closer, and settles slowly and precisely into its relaxed
position, sometimes with a hesitating, intermittent motion.
This slow replenishment of energy, and slow relaxation, can
cause muscles to cramp easily. The aching leg muscles of
children at the end of an active day are often a sign of
hypothyroidism, and sometimes the gastrocnemius muscle
become very swollen and hypertrophied in hypothyroid
children. The same process, of slow energy regeneration,
can cause rhythm disturbance in the heart, and often causes
insomnia and restless sleep.

23
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

The thyroid gland secretes about 3 parts of thyroxin
to one part of triiodothyronine, and this allows the liver to
regulate thyroid function, by converting more of the T, to
the active T, when there is an abundance of energy.
Glucose is essential for the conversion, so during fasting
there is a sharp decrease in metabolic rate, and in
experiments, 200 or 300 calories of carbohydrates can be
added to the diet without causing fat storage.

When the liver is the main cause of hypothyroidism,
your temperature (and especially the temperature of your
nose, hands and feet) will fall when you are hungry, and will
rise when you eat carbohydrates. If a hypothyroid person
has a very slow pulse, and feels lethargic, it seems that there
is little adrenalin; in this case, a feeding of carbohydrate is
likely to increase both the pulse rate and the temperature, as
the liver is permitted to form the active T, hormone.

Women often have above-average thyroxin, with
symptoms of hypothyroidism. This is apparently because it
isn't being converted to the active form (T,). Before using a
Cytomel (T,) supplement, it might be possible to solve the
problem with diet alone. A piece of fruit or a glass of juice
or milk between meals, and adequate animal protein (or
potato protein) in the diet is sometimes enough to allow the
liver to produce the hormone. If Cytomel is used, it 1s
efficient to approximate the physiological rate of T,
formation, by nibbling one (10 or 15 mcg.) tablet during the
day. When a large amount is taken at one time, the liver is
likely to convert much of it to the inactive reverse-T, form,
in a normal defensive response.

Women normally have less active livers than men
do. Estrogen can have a directly toxic effect on the liver,
but the normal reason for the difference is probably that
temperature and thyroid function strongly influence the

24
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

liver, and are generally lower in women than in men.
Estrogen inhibits the secretion of hormone by the thyroid
gland itself, probably by inhibiting the proteolytic enzyme
which dissolves the colloid. Progesterone has the opposite
effect, promoting the release of the hormones from the
gland. At puberty, in pregnancy, and at menopause, the
thyroid gland often enlarges, probably as a result of
estrogen dominance.

Thyroid function stimulates the liver to inactivate
estrogen for secretion, so estrogen dominance can create a
vicious circle, in which excess estrogen (or deficient
progesterone) blocks thyroid secretion, causing the liver to
allow estrogen to accumulate to even higher levels.
Progesterone (even one dose, in some cases) can break the
cycle. However, if the gland is very big, the person can
experience a few months of hyperthyroidism, as the gland
returns to normal. It is better to allow the enlarged gland to
shrink more slowly by using a thyroid supplement. If an
enlarged gland does begin to secrete too much thyroid
hormone, it can be controlled with tablets of
propylthiouracil, or even with raw cabbage or cabbage juice,
and cysteine-rich meats, including liver.

Besides fasting, or chronic protein deficiency, the
common causes of hypothyroidism are excessive stress or
"aerobic" (i.e., anaerobic) exercise, and diets containing
beans, lentils, nuts, unsaturated fats (including carotene),
and undercooked broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, or mustard
greens. Many health conscious people become hypothyroid
with a synergistic program of undercooked vegetables,
legumes instead of animal proteins, oils instead of butter,
carotene instead of vitamin A, and breathless exercise
instead of a stimulating life.

25
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

A good diet, plus a supplement of either thyroid or
progesterone, can often break the cycle of hormonal
imbalance.

If a person has at least a normal level of cholesterol,
it is very likely that a progesterone deficiency can be
corrected by normalizing the thyroid function, since thyroid,
vitamin A, and cholesterol are the main factors in the
synthesis of progesterone. If the problem is that the ratio of
estrogen to progesterone is too high, though progesterone
might itself be at a reasonable level, thyroid becomes
crucial, to bring the estrogen level down to normal. In
hypothyroidism there is a tendency to develop cystic
ovaries, and low thyroid function normally leads to estrogen
dominance, even if the ovaries seem normal.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

WARBURG'S CANCER THEORY, CACHEXIA
AND THYROID THERAPY

Otto Warburg’ demonstrated that all cancers have
defective respiration, by which he meant that glucose is
consumed too rapidly, even when there is adequate oxygen.
The excessive consumption of glucose in the presence of
oxygen is called aerobic glycolysis, and is typical of cancer.
Oxygen may be consumed, but it does not result in the
production of sufficient ATP to inhibit glycolysis (by the
Pasteur effect). This generally means that excess lactate
will be produced and will leave the cell, will be detected by
other tissues, and will be processed by the liver into glucose.
Lactate is a sufficient stimulus to trigger the stress reaction,
and in many people causes an anxiety syndrome. Since
resynthesis of glucose from lactate by the liver requires
much more energy than is derived from conversion of
glucose to lactate, the tumor's formation of lactate
constitutes a large burden to the organism. Total energy
consumption would increase, because of intense but
inefficient metabolism in the tumor and in the liver, and also
possibly because of stress-induced brain excitation and the
catabolism of muscle and other tissue proteins. Cortisol
elevates blood glucose and would inhibit the thyroid. Since
there is evidence of thyroid deficiency in various cancers,
and since thyroid supplementation reduces the incidence of
spontaneous tumors in animal studies, thyroid therapy
would be desirable in cancer, especially if there is cachexia.
Gerson,’ Tallberg,’ and others have reported good results
from using thyroid as part of supportive therapy.

The stereotype of the hypothyroid person as
over-weight will lead the typical physician to believe that
metabolic stimulation by thyroid would be exactly the

27
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

opposite of what the cachectic patient needs. The relevant
effects of thyroid (especially with progesterone, to promote
tissue response to thyroid, to block cortisol production, and
to provide general anti-stress physiological support)
however, are stimulation of protein synthesis and the
prevention of lactate formation--or the stimulation of its
oxidation, either by the tumor itself or by other tissues, to
prevent its entry into the Cori cycle, for gluconeogenesis.
Cachexia strumipriva, the wasting disease that used to result
following removal of the thyroid gland when the thyroid
hormone wasn't replaced, should be kept in mind, since it is
a situation in which thyroid cures cachexia, stimulating
anabolic processes.

There has been publicity in recent decades about
various substances produced by cancers that induce the
growth of blood vessels, providing the tumors with the
circulation needed for growth. Since lactic acid is an
adequate stimulus for such growth, and is produced by
tumors, it is remarkable that it has been so consistently
ignored as a reasonable point of intervention for limiting
tumor growth. Thyroid and magnesium make respiration
efficient, in the sense of producing ATP, which is required
for the Pasteur effect to turn off glycolysis. Lactic acid can't
be made (in humans) from fats or alcohol, a point which is
often overlooked by biochemists who work with bacteria,
and so the use of acetic acid, butyric acid, and other fatty
acids (as in coconut oil, for example), combined with
adequate thyroid hormone and magnesium, should make a
significant contribution toward removing the lactate
stimulus for increased blood supply to the tumor.

Progesterone and pregnenolone, by reducing the
cancer-induced excess of the glucocorticoid hormones,
would also make a contribution to decreasing the supply of
glucose to the tumor.

28
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Warburg believed that a riboflavin deficiency was an
important contributor to the development of defective
respiration, but he also pointed out that the simple lack of
oxygen would promote the development of cancer. I have
emphasized the role of estrogen in creating an oxygen
deficiency. Since it inhibits the secretion of thyroxin at the
glandular level, and antagonizes thyroxin at the cellular
level, estrogen is a good candidate for the main cause of the
respiratory defect. It also antagonizes other respiratory
factors, such as magnesium and vitamin E, and excess
estrogen actually impedes oxygenation of the blood. (Both
low thyroid and high estrogen are known to cause an
emphysema-like interference with diffusion of oxygen into
the lung capillaries.)

Radioactive estrogen has been shown to accumulate
selectively in (liver) cancer cells, which is remarkable since
that behavior is so untypical of liver cells. One of my first
research projects had to do with the fact that estrogen
promotes the formation of beta-glucuronidase, an enzyme
which can reverse the reaction which normally occurs in the
liver, detoxifying estrogen by combining it with glucuronic
acid. Irritated tissues, and all cancers, contain
beta-glucuronidase, with the capacity to "re-toxify" estrogen
in the irritated or cancerous site, depositing it locally and
negating the liver's protective function. More recently,
breast cancer cells have been found to contain sulfatase
enzymes, with the same kind of function, since the liver's
other main route of estrogen detoxication is by combining it
with sulfate. A systematic anti-estrogen program (including
adequate protein to sustain liver function) would help to
minimize the cancer-promoting action of this locally
deposited estrogen. I think of the appearance of these
estrogen-releasing enzymes in irritated tissue as part of a
system for promoting regeneration. In the uterus, estrogen

29
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

promotes simple growth, and progesterone promotes
differentiation. I think something analogous happens in
other tissues, with a variety of substances supporting
differentiation.

Once we accept Warburg's thesis, that damaged
respiration is the prime cause of cancer, the therapeutic use
of thyroid in cancer seems obvious. Aging and
estrogen-dominance are other states in which cells seem to
be relatively insensitive to thyroid hormones. (Unsaturated
fats are involved in resistance to thyroid, and promote the
incidence of cancer in a variety of ways.) If the liver is a
main site of T,'s conversion to T,, cancer patients may
require very large doses of thyroid hormone, or else direct
use of T, (possibly in large doses), since the liver is so likely
to be inefficient. Incidentally, thyroid’s ability to improve
digestion and peristalsis is important for liver function;
endotoxin absorbed from the intestine can be a serious
burden to the liver, and it is known to cause a large increase
in the blood estrogen level.

REFERENCES

|. Otto H. Warburg, Zhe Metabolism of Tumors, R. R.
Smith, Inc. N.Y., 1931.

2. Max Gerson, A Cancer Therapy, Whittier Books, N.Y.,
1958.

3. I. Tallberg, Protides of the Body Fluids, 1978.

30
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

THE CERVICAL CANCER SCARE

Many women with abnormal Pap smears, even with
a biopsy showing the so-called "carcinoma in situ," have
returned to normal in just two months with a diet including
the following: 90 grams of protein, 500 mg. of magnesium
as chloride, 100,000 units of vitamin A, 400 units of vitamin
E, 5 mg. folic acid, 100 mg. pantothenic acid, 100 mg. of B,
and niacinamide, and 500 mg. of vitamin C, with
progesterone and thyroid as needed. Liver should be eaten
once a week, because of its high B-vitamin content. Some
of the women apply vitamin A (not carotene) directly to the
Cervix.

Estrogen is known to cause uterine cancer, but the
pervasive marketing of estrogen led to solving that problem
by the mass removal of American uteruses. The evidence is
clear, however, that many tissues have estrogen receptors,
and can be cancerized by exposure to estrogen. Breast,
lung, brain, and liver are coming to be widely recognized as
sites of estrogen-induced cancers in humans, 50 years after
Lipschutz demonstrated the extensive nature of estrogen
carcinogenesis in animals. The pancreas, which has
estrogen receptors, is another organ that I believe is
significantly cancerized by estrogen.

Progesterone's anti-estrogen effect has been
successfully used to treat some uterine and breast cancers,
but the doses were never high enough to duplicate the levels
that exist in late pregnancy. I believe it is irrational to use
less than the maximum physiological level, in attempting to
reverse a condition which resulted from years of severe
deficiency. When progesterone dissolved in benzyl alcohol

31
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

with sesame oil is injected, progesterone crystals are
deposited, inertly, in the tissue. Even this limited approach
has produced some visible results.

I believe the fact that the cancer death rate keeps
rising disproves the claim that there has been progress in the
cure of cancer. Everyone over 50 contains some tissue that
can be diagnosed as cancer. Though not everyone dies from
cancer, it could be diagnosed in everyone, if a sufficient
diagnostic effort were made. Then, 75% of “all cancers"
could be "cured," though just as many people would die
from it. The cancer situation is so thoroughly unscientific
that I am not convinced that it is worthwhile to make any
effort to diagnose cancer. At a cancer conference, a very
high proportion of the male physicians, when asked what
they would do if they had prostate cancer, said they would
do nothing; that response seems to be justified by the
evidence accumulated for several decades, that treatment
for prostate cancer hasn't clearly prolonged life. More
ageressive diagnosis will certainly improve the "cure rate,"
but until the population's death rate from prostate cancer
decreases, it is hard to have confidence in therapies based
on fundamentally confused notions of the biclogy of cancer.
If something harms your vitality, and is just as toxic to your
immune system, your liver, and your brain, as it 1s to cancer
cells, the medical situation seems analogous to that of the
army that destroys a town to save it.

Benign breast disease, breast cancer and
pre-cancerous conditions have been found to be associated
with a progesterone deficiency and excess estrogen. Some
references are given in Nutrition for Women. Since
progesterone deficiency and excess estrogen can be caused
by either a thyroid deficiency or a protein deficiency, the
most important cause of the steroid imbalance, and of the
hormone related cancers, is hypothyroidism. Broda Barnes

32
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

has discussed this issue in his books. (Protein deficiency is
one cause of hypothyroidism.) Vitamin A, vitamin E, and
thyroid have all been used effectively to relieve benign
breast disease. Caffeine actually has been repeatedly shown
to protect against cancer. Minton's so-called study which
led to a generalized fear of coffee as a cause of breast
disease was based on confused reasoning. I believe
anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin or prostaglandin
inhibitors such as indomethacin have a rational place in
cancer therapy, especially if (like aspirin) they have some
antihistamine activity. Estrogen tends to be deposited in
inflamed tissues, and in that sense those drugs might be
considered as part of an anti-estrogenic program.

(A) initial appearance of lesion, (B) after 31 days on progesterone.

33
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

MENOPAUSE AND ITS CAUSES

When I was in graduate school at the University of
Oregon, everyone in our lab was working on the problem of
reproductive: aging. Previously, people in the lab had
established that the ovaries didn't "run out of eggs." There
was never really any basis for that ridiculous belief. Many
people just said it, they way they said “old eggs" (but never
old sperms) were responsible for birth defects, or that
"estrogen is the female hormone," a deficiency of which is
the cause of menopausal infertility.

I knew, from talking with L. C. Strong, that early
reproductive maturity was associated with early death; in his
strains of cancer-prone mice, he showed that high estrogen
was the cause of early puberty and high cancer incidence.
In my work with hamsters, I found that the infertility that
developed at middle age was caused by a high rate of
oxygen consumption in the uterus, causing the oxygen
needed by the developing embryo to be consumed by
uterine tissues, and causing suffocation of the embryo. This
is the central mechanism by which the estrogen-containing
contraceptives work: at any stage of pregnancy, a sufficient
dose of estrogen kills the embryo.

Polvani and Nencioni, among others, found that in
women, the onset of menopause (the first missed period,
bone loss, nervous symptoms) corresponds to the failure to
produce progesterone, while estrogen is produced at normal
levels. This results in a great functional excess of estrogen,
because it is no longer opposed by progesterone. Typically,
it takes about 4 years for the monthly estrogen excess to
disappear. They suggested that the bone loss sets in

34
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

immediately when progesterone fails because cortisol then is
able to dominate, causing bone catabolism; progesterone
normally protects against cortisol. Other researchers have
pointed out that estrogen dominance promotes mitosis of
the prolactin-secreting cells of the pituitary, and that
prolactin causes osteoporosis; by age 50, most people have
some degree of tumefaction of the prolactin-secreting part
of the pituitary. But estrogen dominance (or progesterone
deficiency) also clearly obstructs thyroid secretion, and
thyroid governs the rate of bone metabolism and repair.
Correcting the thyroid and progesterone should take care of
the cortisol/prolactin/osteoporosis problem.

P. M. Wise' has demonstrated that the "menopausal"
pituitary hormones, high levels of LH and FSH, are
produced because the regulatory nerves in the hypothalamus
have lost their sensitivity to estrogen, not because estrogen
is deficient. In fact, he showed that the nerves are
desensitized precisely by their cumulative exposure to
estrogen. If an animal's ovaries are removed when it is
young, the regulatory nerves do not atrophy, and if ovaries
are transplanted into these animals at the normally infertile
age, they are fertile. But if animals are given larger doses of
estrogen during youth, those nerves atrophy prematurely,
and they become prematurely infertile.

The mechanism by which estrogen desensitizes and
kills brain cells is now recognized as the "excitotoxic"
process, in which the excitatory transmitter glutamic acid is
allowed to exhaust the nerve cells. (This explains the older
observations that glutamic acid, or aspartic acid, or
aspartame, can cause brain damage and reproductive
failure.) Cortisol also activates the excitotoxic system, in
other brain cells, causing stress-induced atrophy of those
cells.” Progesterone and pregnenolone are recognized as
inhibitors of this excitotoxic process.

35
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

It was established in the 1950s that estrogen
"erases" memories in well trained animals. I suppose that
acute effect is related to the chronic toxicity that leads to
cell death. (In the 1940s, DES was sold to prevent
miscarriages, though it was already known that it caused
them; then there was the argument that it slowed aging of
the skin, despite the Revlon studies at the University of
Pennsylvania showing that it accelerates all aspects of skin
aging: lately there has been talk of promoting estrogen to
improve memory; I guess there is some weird homeopathic
reasoning involved here. )

Estrogen's nerve-exciting action is known to lower
seizure thresholds; premenstrual epilepsy is probably
another acute sign of the neurotoxicity of estrogen.

When fatigue and lethargy are associated with aging,
the brain stimulating action of estrogen can make a woman
feel that she has more energy. (Large doses given to rats
will make them run compulsively; running wheels with
odometers have shown that they will run over 30 miles a
day from the influence of estrogen.) Estrogen inhibits one
of the enzymic routes for inactivating brain amines, and so it
has more general effects on the brain than just the glutamate
system. This generalized effect on brain amines is more like
the effects of cocaine or amphetamine. If that is a woman's
basis for wanting to use estrogen, a monoamine oxidase
inhibitor would be safer.

The reason for the menopausal progesterone
deficiency is a complex of stress-related causes.
Free-radicals interfere with progesterone synthesis, as do
prolactin, ACTH, estrogen, cortisol, carotene, and an
imbalance of gonadotropins. A deficiency of thyroid,
vitamin A, and LDL-cholesterol can also prevent the

36
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

synthesis of progesterone. Several of the things which
cause early puberty and high estrogen, also tend to work
against progesterone synthesis. The effect of an
intra-uterine irritant is to signal the ovary to suppress
progesterone production, to prevent pregnancy while there
is a problem in the uterus. The logic by which ACTH
suppresses progesterone synthesis is similar, to prevent
pregnancy during stress.

Since progesterone and pregnenolone protect brain
cells against the excitotoxins, anything that chronically
lowers the body's progesterone level tends to accelerate the
estrogen-induced excitotoxic death of brain cells.

Chronic constipation, and anxiety which decreases
blood circulation in the intestine, can increase the liver's
exposure to endotoxin. Endotoxin (like intense physical
activity) causes the estrogen concentration of the blood to
rise. Diets that speed intestinal peristalsis might be expected
to postpone menopause. Penicillin treatment, probably by
lowering endotoxin production, is known to decrease
estrogen and cortisone, while increasing progesterone.

Finally, long hours of daylight are known to increase
progesterone production, and long hours of darkness are
stressful. Annually, our total hours of day and night are the
same regardless of latitude, but different ways of living,
levels of artificial illumination, etc., have a strong influence
on our hormones. In some animal experiments, prolonged
exposure to light has delayed some aspects of aging.

General aging contributes to the specific changes
that lead to menopause, but the animal experiments show
that fertility can be prolonged to a much greater age by
preventing excitotoxic exhaustion of the hypothalamic
nerves. The question that still needs to be more clearly

37
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

answered is, to what extent can general aging be prevented
or delayed by protecting against the excitotoxins?
Minimizing estrogen (and cortisone) with optimal thyroid
activity, and maximizing pregnenolone and progesterone to
prevent excitotoxic cell fatigue, can be done easily. A diet
low in iron and unsaturated fats protects the respiratory
apparatus from the damaging effects of excessive excitation,
and--since pregnenolone is formed in the mitochon-
drion--also helps to prevent the loss of these hormones.

REFERENCES

1. P. M. Wise, "Influence of estrogen on aging of the central
nervous system: its role in declining female reproductive
function," in Menopause: Evaluation, Treatment, and
Health Concerns, pages 53-70, 1989.

2. T. I. Belova, "Structural damage to the mesencephalic

reticular formation induced by immobilization stress," Bull.
Exp. Biol. & Med. 108(7), 126030, 1989.

38
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

DOSAGE OF PROGESTERONE

Since progesterone is not known to have any
harmful side effects (except for alteration of the menstrual
cycle if it is taken at the wrong time of month), the basic
procedure should be to use it in sufficient quantity to make
the symptoms disappear, and to time its use so that
menstrual cycles are not disrupted. This normally means
using it only between ovulation and menstruation unless
symptoms are sufficiently serious that a missed period is not
important. The basic idea of giving enough to stop the
symptoms can be refined by some information on a few of
the factors that condition the need for progesterone.

If a person has an enlarged thyroid gland,
progesterone promotes secretion and unloading of the
stored "colloid," and can bring on a temporary hyperthyroid
state. A thyroid supplement should be used to shrink the
goiter before progesterone is given. Normal amounts of
progesterone facilitate thyroid secretion, while a deficiency,
with unopposed estrogen, causes the thyroid to enlarge.
The production of euphoria has been mentioned as a side
effect, but I think euphoria is simply an indication of a good
physiological state. Very large doses that are given in
vitamin E solution, allowing complete absorption, can reach
the level that is sometimes achieved late in pregnancy,
producing both euphoria and a degree of anesthesia. To
avoid unexpected anesthesia, the correct dose should be
determined by taking about 10 mg. at a time, allowing it to
spread into the membranes of the mouth, and repeating the
dose after 10 minutes until the symptoms are controlled.

An excessive estrogen/progesterone ratio is more
generally involved in producing or aggravating symptoms

39
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

than either a simple excess of estrogen or a deficiency of
progesterone, but even this ratio is conditioned by other
factors, including age, diet, other steroids, thyroid, and
other hormones. The relative estrogen excess seems to act
by producing tissue hypoxia (as reported in my dissertation,
University of Oregon, 1972), and this is the result of
changes induced by estrogen in alveolar diffusion, peripheral
vascular changes, and intracellular oxygen wastage.

Hypoxia in turn produces edema (as can be observed
in the cornea when it is deprived of oxygen, as by a contact
lens) and hypoglycemia (e.g., diminished ATP acts like
insulin), because glycolysis must increase greatly for even a
small deficiency of oxygen. Elevated blood lactic acid is
one sign of tissue hypoxia. Edema, hypoglycemia, and
lactic acidemia can also be produced by other "respiratory"
defects, including hypothyroidism, in which the tissue does
not use enough oxygen. In hypoxia, the skin will be bluer
(in thin places, such as around the eyes), than when low
oxygen consumption is the main problem. Low thyroid is
one cause of excess estrogen, and when high estrogen is
combined with low thyroid, the skin looks relatively
bloodless.

Symptoms in cycling women are most common
around ovulation and in the premenstrual week, when the
estrogen/progesterone ratio is normally highest. At puberty,
in the early twenties and in the late thirties and menopause
are the ages when the ratio is most often disturbed--and
these are also the ages when thyroid disorders are
commonest in women.

The individual who suffers from one aspect of the
progesterone (and/or thyroid) deficiency will tend to
develop other problems at different times. With cyclic
depressions or migraine headaches at age 22, there will

40
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

possibly be breast disease later, and often there will be
problems with pregnancy. These people with a history of
severe symptoms are the ones most likely to have severe
problems around menopause. Prenatal exposure to poorly
balanced hormones seems to predispose the child to later
hormone problems.

Excess stress (which can block progesterone
synthesis and elevate estrogen) may bring on symptoms in
someone who never had them. Spending a summer in
Alaska, with an unusually long day, may relieve the
symptoms of a chronic sufferer. Dark cloudy winters in
England or the Pacific Northwest are powerful stressors,
and cause lower production of progesterone in women, and
testosterone in men. Toxins can produce similar symptoms,
as can nutritional deficiencies. A very common cause of an
estrogen excess is a dietary protein deficiency--the liver
simply cannot detoxify estrogen when it is under-nourished.

With a diet high in protein (e.g., 70-100 grams per
day, including eggs) and vitamin A (not carotene), I have
found that the dose of progesterone can be reduced each
month. Using thyroid will usually reduce the amount of
progesterone needed. Occasionally, a woman won't feel any
effect even from 100 mg. of progesterone; I think this
indicates that they need to use thyroid and diet, to normalize
their estrogen, prolactin, and cortisol.

Progesterone stimulates the ovaries and adrenals to
produce progesterone, and it also activates the thyroid, so
one dose can sometimes have prolonged effects. It
shouldn't be necessary to keep using progesterone
indefinitely, unless the ovaries have been removed. In
slender post-menopausal women, 10 mg. per day is usually
enough to prevent progesterone deficiency symptoms.

4]
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

REFERENCES

Katharina Dalton, Premenstrual Syndrome and
Progesterone Therapy, Year Book Medical Publishers, Inc.,
Chicago, 1977.

Alexander Lipschutz, Steroid Hormones and Tumors,
Williams and Wilkens Company, Baltimore, 1950.

R. F. Peat, Nutrition for Women, International College,
1992.

R. F. Peat, Age Related Oxidative Changes in the Hamster
Uterus, University of Oregon thesis, Eugene, Oregon, 1972.

Figure |

w
c
7
= a
r
: 2
O
c f
oO o.
hu
a
v O
wn wy
1
od 9
(2) oT)
ba iT)
i=") =
ovulation menstr.
Figure 2
} daily dose: LO - 1,000 mg.
: + 10 - 14 days t

Menstr.
Phy

Premenstruation, ovulation, perimenstruation

42
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

THE PROGESTERONE DECEPTIONS

In the 1930s, it was demonstrated that estrogen,
even in small doses, produced abortions, and that when it is
given early enough, even a very small dose will prevent
implantation of the fertilized embryo. Progesterone was
known, by the early 1940s, to protect against the many
toxic effects of estrogen, including abortion, but it was also
known as nature's contraceptive, since it prevents pregnancy
without harmful side-effects, by different mechanisms,
including prevention of sperm entry into the uterus. That is,
progesterone prevents the miscarriages which result from
excess estrogen,(1,2) but if used before intercourse, it
prevents conception, and thus is a true contraceptive, while
estrogen is an abortifacient, not a contraceptive.

In the 1950s, there was a search for chemicals which
would prevent ovulation. According to Carl Dyjerassi,(3)
drug companies were extremely reluctant to risk a religious
backlash against their other products, and so hesitated to
market contraceptives. Obviously, the induction of monthly
abortions would have been even harder to sell.

According to Djerassi,(3) "Until the middle 1940s it
was assumed that progesterone's biological activity was
extremely specific and that almost any alteration of the
molecule would diminish or abolish its activity." This would
obviously discourage interest from the drug companies, who
could patent a substance which they had chemically
modified, but could not patent a simple natural substance.
However, many substances--even non-steroidal
chemicals--turned out to have estrogenic action.(4)

43
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

By 1942, Hans Selye had demonstrated that natural
steroids retain their activity when administered orally. But
every drug company with a steroid patent had an obvious
interest in having the public believe that there is a reason
that the natural steroids cannot be conveniently used. The
doctrine that natural steroids are destroyed by stomach acid
appeared, was promoted, and was accepted. In the
manufacture of progesterone, the precursor steroid 1s boiled
in hydrochloric acid to free it from its glucose residue; no
one seriously believed that stomach acid hurts progesterone,
except the public.

The real issue is solubility. Hydrocortisone is
reasonably soluble in water, but progesterone is extremely
insoluble in water, and, though it is vastly more soluble in
vegetable oil than in water, it does not stay in solution at
room temperature even at the low concentration of 1 part in
1000 parts of vegetable oil.

When people speak of an allergy to progesterone (or
even to penicillin) they generally are not aware of the
presence of a very toxic solvent.(5) A few years ago,
progesterone was often sold dissolved in benzyl benzoate:
the Physician's Desk Reference warned of possible allergic
reaction to progesterone. Now, it is supposedly sold
dissolved in vegetable oil, with about 10% benzyl alcohol as
a bacteriostatic agent. Bacteriostatic water contains 0.9%
to 1.9% benzyl alcohol, and can irreversibly harm nerves.(7)
Awareness of benzyl alcohol's toxicity goes back to 1918 at
least; it was proposed as an effective insecticide, and was
found to be toxic to many animal systems. The safe systemic
dose(7) is exceeded with an injection of 150 mg. of
progesterone, yet the local concentration is far higher. It can
cause a severe reaction even when used at a lower
concentration, in bacteriostatic water.(5)
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Other alcohols, including ethanol, have been used as
solvents, but since they (ethanol even more than benzyl
alcohol) have an affinity for water, the solution decomposes
in contact with tissue water.

In spite of the toxicity of the vehicle, several
beneficial effects can be obtained with injected
progesterone, in serious conditions such as epilepsy or
cancer of the breast or uterus. Many researchers have
commented on the very obvious difficulty of giving very
large amounts of progesterone.(8) My comparisons of oral
progesterone in tocopherol with other forms and methods of
administration show a roughly similar efficiency for oral and
injected progesterone, and about 1/20 the effect for
suppositories. Crystals of progesterone are visible in the
suppositories I have examined, and this material is obviously
wasted.

An old theory of vitamin E's mechanism of action in
improving fertility was that it spares progesterone.(9) It is
established that some of the effects of vitamin E and
progesterone are similar; for example, both prevent oxygen
waste and appear to improve mitochondrial coupling of
phosphorylation with respiration. I suspected that if they
actually both work at the same mitochondrial site, then they
must have a high mutual solubility. Knowing the
long-standing problem of administering large doses of
progesterone without a toxic solvent, I applied for and was
granted a patent for the composition of progesterone in
tocopherol. One of my reasons for publishing in the form of
patents is that I have had many years of experience in
having my discoveries taken up by others without
acknowledgment. My _ dissertation research, which
established that an estrogen excess kills the embryo by
suffocation, and that progesterone protects the embryo by
promoting the delivery of both oxygen and glucose, didn't

45
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

strike a responsive chord in the journals which are heavily
influenced by funds from the drug industry.

According to a consultant for a major medical
journal, the idea "...of dissolving progesterone, a fat soluble
steroid hormone, in vitamin E which is then incorporated
into chylomicrons absorbed via the lymphatics, and thus
avoids the liver on the so called first pass... ...is so simple it
is amazing that the pharmaceutical companies have not
jumped on it."

In the powder form, direct and intimate contact with
a mucous membrane allows lipid phase to lipid phase
transfer of progesterone molecules. Instead of by-passing
the liver, much of the progesterone is picked up in the portal
circulation, where a major part of it is glucuronidated, and
made water soluble for prompt excretion. Since this
glucuronide form cross-reacts to some extent with ordinary
progesterone in the assay process, and since 50% of the
ordinary free progesterone is carried inside the red blood
cells,(10) and 50% is associated with proteins in the plasma,
while the glucuronide hardly enters the red blood cells at all,
it is better to judge by clinical efficacy when comparing
different oral forms. My comparisons show several times
higher potency in the tocopherol composition than in
powder form.

Since progesterone's use as a drug antedates the
1938 law requiring special federal approval, its legal status
is similar to that of thyroid hormone. Unfortunately, for
both thyroid and progesterone, there is a tendency to cut
corners for the sake of a bigger profit margin.

For example, steroid acetates are generally a little
cheaper than the simple natural steroid. Some people
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

assume that an acetate or butyrate can be substituted for the
steroid itself. This can cause dangerous reactions.

Medroxyprogesterone acetate is considered a
progestin, because it modifies the uterus in approximately
the way progesterone does, but it is luteolytic, and lowers
the ovaries' production of progesterone while progesterone
itself has a positive effect on the corpus luteum, stimulating
progesterone synthesis. Defining "progestin" in a narrow
way allows many synthetics to be sold as progestagens,
though some of them are strongly estrogenic, allowing them
to function as contraceptives--it is odd that contraceptives
and agents which suppress progesterone synthesis should be
officially called “supporters of pregnancy." It is probably
partly the acetate group in the medroxyprogesterone acetate
molecule which makes it bind firmly to receptors, yet causes
it to block the enzymes which would normally be involved
in progesterone metabolism. (I think testosterone, even,
might be a safer progestin than medroxyprogesterone
acetate.) Pregnenolone acetate similarly blocks the enzymes
which normally metabolize pregnenolone.(11) In aspirin, it
has been found that it is the acetyl group which (by a free
radical action) blocks an enzyme involved in prostaglandin
synthesis.

If the category called "progestogens" or "progestins"
is to be defined on the basis of a single tissue reaction, then
it is possible to classify progesterone with the toxic
synthetic substances, but then it becomes highly deceptive
to imply that progesterone is just a progestin, or that it has
any of the other properties of the toxic synthetics, but this
continues to be done. The warnings about "progestins
causing birth defects," for example, cause epileptic women
to use conventional anti-seizure drugs (all of which cause
birth defects) during pregnancy, and to avoid natural
progesterone, which generally could control their seizures.

47
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Thus, a false message attached to progesterone creates
precisely the harm it claims to want to prevent. In my
communications with the regulatory agencies, I have
concluded that their attempts to deceive are too blatant to
ascribe to incompetency. Whether it's the Forest Service or
the FDA, the principle is the same: the regulatory agencies
have been captured by the regulated industries.

Another place to cut costs is in the tocopherol.
Tocopherol acetate does have vitamin E activity, but since it
is only about half as efficiently absorbed as the simple
tocopherol,(12) it is a mistake to save a few dollars an
ounce, at the expense of losing half of the therapeutic effect.
People who have compared natural progesterone in natural
tocopherols with other compositions have insisted that the
other compositions must not contain progesterone.

The taste of natural vitamin E is stronger than that
of the synthetic forms, but since the mixture is absorbed by
any tissue it contacts, including various parts of the bowel,
it can be taken in a capsule. If a small amount of olive oil is
used with it, absorption through the skin is very rapid. Many
women use it vaginally, spread onto a diaphragm, to hold it
in contact with the membranes. The efficiency of absorption
by all routes is so high that patients should be warned
against its anesthetic effect, until their dosage requirement is
known approximately. Some _ physicians prefer
concentrations higher than 10%, but the risk of accidental
drunkenness or anesthesia is higher with the stronger
solutions.

It is an indication of the tocopherol solution's high
availability that medical researchers such as Roy Hertz,(8)
who thought they were administering maximal doses by
combining injections with suppositories, never mentioned
the problem of an anesthetic effect from an overdose.

48
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Similarly, it is evidence of the extremely poor availability of
the micropulverized progesterone that the researchers have
administered hundreds of milligrams per day, without
mentioning the symptoms of an overdose. Because of the
difficulties involved in scientifically studying the clinical
effectiveness of various formulations, I think the most
practical way of evaluating the effectiveness of different
progesterone formulations is to measure the amount
extractable from the red blood cells, a few hours after the
peak serum level has been reached. This will reasonably
reflect the amounts reaching brain cells, adrenal glands, and
the various other cells on which progesterone has its
therapeutic action.

REFERENCES

1. A. A. Gidley-Baird, et al., Failure of implantation in
human in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer patients: the
effects of altered progesterone/estrogen ratios in humans
and mice, Fertility and Sterility 45(1): 69-74, 1986.

2. J. L. Yovich, et al., Early luteal serum progesterone
concentrations are higher in pregnancy cycles, Fertility and
Sterility 44(1): 185-189, 1985.

3. C. Djerassi, The making of the pill, Science 84: 127-129,
1984.

4. R. Kehl, Les Glandes Endocrines, Presses Universitaires
de France, Paris, 1952.

5. J. A. Grant, et al., New England Journal of Medicine

306(2): 108, 1982, Unsuspected benzyl alcohol
hypersensitivity.

49
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

6. T. E. Feasby, et al., Neurotoxicity of bacteriostatic water,
New England Journal of Medicine 308(6): 966-7, 1983.

7. E. T. Kimura, et al., Parenteral toxicity studies with
benzyl alcohol, Toxicol Appl Pharmacol 18: 60-68, 1971.

8. A. White, editor, Symposium on Steroids in Experimental
and Clinical Practice, The Blakiston Co., N.Y., 1951, p.
401.

9. A. Fraschini, Il Metodo Biologico di Rinvigorimento,
Edizioni Minerva Medica, Milan, 1954.

10. E. Mulder, et al., Metabolism of free and conjugated
steroids by intact and haemolysed mammalian erythrocytes,
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 263: 290-297, 1972.

M. Holzbauer, The association of steroids with blood cells
in vivo, J. of Steroid Biochemistry 3: 579-592, 1972.

11. §. Lieberman, et al, A heuristic proposal for
understanding steroidogenic processes, Endocrine Reviews
5(1): 128-148, 1984.

12. L. J. Machlin and E. Gabriel, Kinetics of tissue
alpha-tocopherol uptake and depletion, following
administration of high levels of vitamin E, p. 48 in Annals of
the N.Y. Academy of Science 393, B. Lubin and L. J.
Machlin, editors, New York, 1982.

50)
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

ORIGINS OF PROGESTERONE THERAPY

By the beginning of the 20th century, the idea of
extracting regulatory substances from animal tissues was
coming into general acceptance in Western medicine. J. A.
Lebreton, in Paris, was one of the first to argue for the
therapeutic use of an extract of the corpus luteum. Around
1904, C. F. Burnam, of Baltimore, began using corpus
luteum of the sow, administered orally, to treat the nervous
symptoms associated with menopause or with the menstrual
cycle, and also to treat functional amenorrhea, obesity,
sterility, and habitual miscarriage. (1912 edition of New and
Nonofficial Remedies, and J.A.M.A., Aug. 31, 1919, lix, p.
698.) By the 1920s, tablets of desiccated corpus luteum
were generally available, and the daily dosage recommended
(representing 6 to 18 grams of fresh tissue) contained a very
substantial quantity of progesterone.

The chemical structure of pure crystalline progesterone was
determined in 1934 (by Butenandt), and within 2 years
many publications were reporting the beneficial effects of
injections of the purified material. By 1935, animal research
was confirming that the therapeutic work previously done
with the crude extract had been on the right track. Although
the early research showed that progesterone was very
beneficial in threatened miscarriage, arthritis, infertility,
cancer and functional diseases of the nervous system,
interest in this generic, public-domain material faded as the
pharmaceutical industry found methods for converting it
into proprietary synthetic glucocorticoids, estrogens, and
progestins.

Animals are generally more sensitive to progesterone than
humans are, and in animals no toxic level has been found,

5]
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

except that in the highest doses it is anesthetic. In humans,
even this effect has never been reported in the medical
literature, and it is clearly anti-toxic in nature. Besides
preventing acute poisoning of many kinds, it also reduces
the incidence of birth defects and cancer.

Progesterone, the Protective Substance of Youth

In 1971, I discovered that vitamin E and
progesterone work together to sustain efficient production
and use of biological energy. (1) In the mid-1970s, I found
that progesterone is the most powerful order-preserving
substance (anti-chaotropic) on the cellular level, and that
this explains its range of protective actions, from anti-toxic
to anti-stress, (2,3)

Around 1980, I discovered that vitamin E, with its
crucial effect on the mitochondrial respiratory enzymes, is a
uniquely powerful, stable, and biologically compatible
solvent for progesterone.(4) Their intimate association at
certain cellular sites requires mutual solubility. This property
of mutual affinity extends to all biological areas, meaning
that the solution of progesterone in vitamin E can be
administered with exceptional efficiency by application to
the skin or other membranes, or by ingestion, where normal
digestive processes convert it into chylomicrons and
distribute it to all tissues, allowing it to escape the tendency
of the liver to convert it rapidly to an excretory form, as
occurs when progesterone is administered in other forms.

Because of its profound biological compatibility, the
progesterone-vitamin E solution permits otherwise
impossibly high doses to be given, increasing by as much as
2,000% progesterone's already dramatic effects in a wide
range of major biological problems, including epilepsy,

ie
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

habitual miscarriages, auto-immune diseases, and cancer of
the uterus, breast, and kidney.

Some Aspects of Basic Progesterone Research

By 1945, Hans Selye had demonstrated that
progesterone in itself has the full spectrum of regulatory and
anti-stress functions of the adrenal steroids. A little later,
Albert Szent-Gyorgyi showed that progesterone is able to
regulate the heart, in a manner similar to digitalis. In the
1970s, I demonstrated that it acts similarly on vascular
smooth muscle, regulating its tone and preventing venous
pooling of blood, and maintaining normal filling of the heart,
opposing shock. The immediate improvement in circulation
can have dramatic effects, which include restoration of
kidney function, elimination of fluid from the lungs,
restoration of sensation in the feet, and healing of
gangrenous toes. It restores normal tone to other smooth
muscles, including the gall bladder, urinary bladder,
intestine, sphincters, and uterus.

Progesterone's ability to regulate thresholds of
cellular excitation operates in nerves, as well as in smooth
and cardiac muscle. It sensitizes nerves that regulate
respiration, and has been used to treat infant apnea, sleep
apnea in adults, and polycythemia vera in men.

In cases of specific progesterone deficiency in men,
small doses can cure impotence. It has been used effectively
to treat benign prostatic enlargement.

It normalizes fluid pressure, as in bursitis and
glaucoma treatment. This effect on tissue fluid content is
probably involved in its ability to improve oxygenation in
emphysematous lungs, and to normalize swollen cartilage.

53
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

It restores many of the functions of aged skin, and is
the normal defense against calcium loss from bones. It is
one of the few essential requirements, besides nutrients, for
nerve (brain) cell growth and survival. In young people of
both sexes, the brain contains more progesterone than other
organs do.

It is reasonable that progesterone, the dominant
hormone in pregnancy, should have a full range of
protective functions to protect the vulnerable organism
during its intra-uterine life.

Practical Issues

A typical dose of progesterone/vitamin E, 20mg./day
for 10 consecutive days, costs about $1.00 per month, at the
present retail price. Pharmacists have the authority to
compound drugs as they choose, just as physicians can
prescribe the formulation they prefer. (And beyond that
principle, is the fact natural hormones have never been
legally even prescription drugs. Even potentially deadly
injectable insulin is available everywhere without a
prescription. The FDA acknowledged that they had
erroneously been listing insulin as a prescription drug, when
it wasn't. Federal law prohibits labeling a non-prescription
drug as a prescription drug. When I asked for a copy of
their policy discussions regarding natural hormones, they
claimed the records were "old," and unavailable, then they
said that those policy discussions were done elsewhere, so
they couldn't get access to the record. It's a touchy subject;
the Freedom of Information office claimed they couldn't find
those old documents, and some related things they sent me
were incomplete, with no explanation for the missing
pages. )

Neither progesterone nor vitamin E has any toxicity
when used orally. Under federal law, a prescription is

54
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

needed for a dosage form of a drug that is potentially
harmful. The very dangerous injectable insulin is always
sold without need for a prescription, because something
overrides the principle of danger, presumably that its use is
conceived as akin to nutrition, providing an essential natural
substance to restore a natural function of the body. By
analogy with insulin, the infinitely less dangerous
progesterone should not require a prescription. The most
useful terms for regulatory obfuscation are "Approved New
Drug," and "not an approved drug." Most legal drugs under
the 1938 FDA law have not been under the special category
of "Approved New Drugs," but that is a subject the
regulators just won't talk about. They talk about what they
control, and hope people will assume they control
everything.

Economic Questions

Because of its absorption by a natural digestive
route which distributes it to all of the tissues, progesterone
dissolved in vitamin E is almost 100% absorbed when taken
orally. Less than 1% is absorbed from some types of
suppositories, and less than 5% absorption is typical. Taken
orally as a micronized powder, pharmaceutical efficiency is
only slightly better.

Most of the valid human research before 1981 used
intramuscular injections of progesterone dissolved in
vegetable oil and benzyl alcohol. Benzyl alcohol has a high
affinity for water, and in contact with the tissue fluid, it
leaves the mixture, causing progesterone crystals to form,
since vegetable oil is a poor solvent for progesterone.
Therapeutic blood levels of progesterone can be achieved by
intramuscular injections, but at the cost of leaving toxic
debris at the site of injection. Benzyl alcohol is a powerful
neuro-toxin, but its harm is reduced by progesterone's

55
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

anti-toxic action. The cost of the injectable progesterone,
and of the injection itself, has been the main factor
preventing wider acceptance of this form of progesterone in
the United States.

Natural progesterone, and closely related steroids,
occur in a wide variety of organisms. Up to the present, the
cheapest source of the raw material has been the wild
Dioscorea yam of tropical Mexico, but soybeans have also
been used as the source of a steroid for production of
progesterone. Since the soybean is a major source of
vitamin E, the finished product can be made anywhere the
bean is produced. Fenugreek, a quick-growing plant,
contains the same substance as the Mexican yam, and can
also be use as a source of vitamin E.

The chemistry for converting crude diosgenin into
pregnenolone, and for converting pregnenolone into
progesterone, is very simple, and can be done with little
capital, at the site of production of the raw material.

REFERENCES

1. R. Peat, dissertation, Biology Department, University of
Oregon, 1972.

2. R. Peat and A. L. Soderwall, Cold-inactivated Enzymes,
Physiological Chem. and Physics, 1971 and 1972.

3. R. Peat, A biophysical approach to altered consciousness,
Jour. of Orthomolecular Psychiatry, 1975.

4. R. Peat, U.S. Patent No. 4,432,437, 1984.
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

TRANSDERMAL PROGESTERONE FOR
PREMENSTRUAL SYNDROME

For many years, Katharina Dalton has studied the
use of progesterone therapy for the premenstrual syndrome.
A typical patient may require ten or more progesterone
injections per month, more or less permanently. While this
is feasible (at least in some countries) it is not comfortable
or convenient, in some cases leads to serious reactions at
the injection sites, and in the United States would be too
expensive for general use. When the syndrome is dasabling,
even the burden of frequent and expensive injections is
usually seen as a welcome alternative. However, a less
expensive and more pleasant form of administration could
make the therapy available to millions of women who are
now disabled for one or more days each month. A
satisfactory alternative to injections for many women is to
use a dissolved form of progesterone in a lotion or cold
cream base for transdermal use.

After animal experiments revealed that progesterone in
vegetable oil was absorbed effectively through the skin, in
1977 I began experiments with women who suffered with
the premenstrual syndrome. The first three were completely
disabled by epilepsy, suicidal depression, and optical
neuritis.

The effectiveness of the transdermal absorption route of
administration varies with the individual, but compares
favorably with injections in the amount assimilated.
Thickness of skin or degree of circulation in the skin (these
can be very abnormal in hypothyroidism, for example) and
the amount of adipose tissue apparently make some
difference in the rate of absorption and response. When a
small daily dose (e.g., 5 or 10 mg.) is sufficient, this can be

57
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

taken as about 1/2 to 1 gram of a three percent cream
rubbed into the front of the neck, where it leaves little
oiliness after a few minutes. For large doses, the
appropriate amount can be applied to a larger area of skin
after a hot bath, once or twice a day if necessary.

Over the years I have seen transdermal progesterone
used in hundreds of women suffering from the full range of
perimenstrual symptoms, including migraine, acne,
depression, mastalgia, edema, and lethargy. Nearly all the
women, applying the lotion themselves, are able to find the
appropriate dosage for controlling their symptoms. Often
thyroid therapy or a change in diet or light-exposure or
amount of activity is necessary for complete relief from
symptoms. It is necessary to be clear in describing the
amounts that can be used, while leaving it up to the patient
to find the dose which controls her symptoms, because
some women have an exaggerated idea of the power of a
"hormone." The behind-the-ear scopolamine patch has had
its influence on the idea of transdermal therapy, and many
women have tried just touching the oil to their wrists.

It is a good idea to apply one dose (sometimes using
a twenty percent solution) in the office, and to wait 30 or 40
minutes to make sure that it was large enough to take effect.
Once having felt sudden relief from this "cold cream," it is
easier for the patient to understand how it should be used.
(This trial dose in the office is a good idea when using oral
doses, too, but for an additional reason, namely, to watch
for signs of an overdose.)

Many of the solvents which hold progesterone stably
in a concentrated solution are highly allergenic. Injectable
progesterone in oil could be used transdermally except for
this problem. If necessary, micropulverized progesterone
can be dissolved in warm olive oil for patients who react to

58
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

other materials, or who have a history of skin allergies.
Progesterone usually corrects such allergies, but some
women have found that taking it orally in oil was preferable.
The French have two standard topical progesterone
preparations that have been used for many years for breast
pain and facial hair.

Besides the slow and steady absorption permitted by
the transdermal method, and the fact that many women with
PMS are exaggeratedly sensitive to ingesting anything that
tastes odd, there is a special set of problems that make the
topical use of progesterone very valuable. As I mentioned
above, the French advocate topical progesterone for
mastalgia, but I think thyroid supplementation is the more
general solution to that problem. But in the case of bursitis,
arthritis, tendonitis, "fibrositis," and varicose veins, it is
possible to achieve a higher local concentration with
transdermal use, than can conveniently be achieved by oral
administration. (Though the two can be combined usefully.)
Progesterone is so insoluble in water that it can penetrate
tissue to a remarkable depth, before a significant amount of
it is carried away. Tissue proteins have a great affinity for
oils.

+9
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

A LIST OF SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS THAT
RESPOND TO PROGESTERONE THERAPY

Many people found the list of signs and symptoms in
the first edition of this book either useful or interesting; at
least it is an emphatic way of pointing out that progesterone
has so many functions it can't be considered to be just a
“reproductive hormone." Since I now understand better the
biological meaning of these signs, | want to emphasize more
strongly the importance of normalizing nutrition, thyroid
function, light exposure, and bowel action in correcting the
problems behind these signs and symptoms. It is really a
kind of index of physiological disorders, and it happens that
progesterone is a major tool for physiological adaptation.

Abdominal bloating

Accident proneness

Acne (cyclic)

Aggressiveness

Alcoholic or drug addiction

Allergic rhinitis

Appetite disturbance

Arthritis’

Asthma, especially in
adolescence & menopause

Bleeding gums

Breast symptoms’

Bruising spontaneously

Capillary fragility

Carpal tunnel syndrome

Cold hands & feet

Conjunctival or retinal
hemorrhage

Constipation, colicky pain

Colitis, regional enteritis

60

Depression

Diabetic vascular problems

Edema

Endometriosis, cervical dys-
plasia

Epilepsy, vertigo

Facial hair

Facial pallor, puffiness, dark-
ening under the eyes

Fainting

Fatigue, lethargy

Fibroids

Fluctuations in weight

Formication (crawling sensa-
tion on the skin)

Gall bladder symptoms

Glaucoma (high eye pressure)

Goiter

Headache, eye pain, flashes
of light, photophobia
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

Heart murmur

High blood pressure

Hypoglycemia

Hysteria (many emotional
symptoms)

Infertility

Inflammatory and "fibrous'
disease

Inner ear dizziness

Insomnia

Irritability

Low blood pressure

Lethargy and clumsiness

Menopause

Mittelschmerz®

Migraine

Nymphomania, loss of
libido

Optic neuritis

Panic, weepiness, night-
WOITY

Palpitations or paroxysmal
tachycardia

Paraesthesias

Pituitary abnormalities

Porphyria

Sciatica

Skin disorders: facial pigmen-
tation, erythema, urticaria

Stroke symptoms

Sweat glands: fewer func-
tional

Toxemia of pregnancy.

Urinary frequency, etc.

Varicose veins, tired leg

Vascular abnormalities:
flushing, capillary fragility,
clotting, kidney underfunc-
tion, varicosities.

1. Antibodies to joint material are found after even a
mechanical or thermal injury to the joint; twisting cartilage
makes it antigenic; autoimmune disease is probably nothing
very special, and estrogen is now known to be responsible
for many forms of it, including osteoarthritis.
"Rheumatism" is an early sign of stress damage to joints.
See H. Selye's book on arthritis and scleroderma.

2. See Annales d'Endocrinologie 37, p. 309; Cancer 33, p.
1506; Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci., 1977. Progesterone
deficiency predisposes to cancer.

3. Cramping at ovulation, often mistaken for appendicitis: in
a 1962 study, 62% of all appendices removed from girls
ages 11-20 were normal.

61
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

REFERENCES

Katharina Dalton, The Premenstrual Syndrome and
Progesterone Therapy, Year Book Medical Publishers, Inc.,
Chicago, 1977.

Ashley Montagu, Human Heredity, New American Library,
New York, 1963.

R. F. Peat and A. L. Soderwall, "Estrogen stimulated
pathway changes," Physiological Chemistry and Physics,
4(3), 295, 1972.

R. F. Peat, "A biophysical approach to altered
consciousness," J. of Orthomolecular Psychiatry,
September, 1975.

S. Rose, "Environmental effects on brain and behavior,"
chapter in Race and Intelligence, edited by Richardson and
Spears, Penguin Books, Baltimore, 1972.

A. E. Needham, The Growth Process in Animals, Van
Nostrand, Princeton, N. J. 1964.

Max Reiss, Psychendocrinology, Grune and Stratton, New
York, 1958.

62
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

AN EFFICIENT ORAL THERAPY

As early as 1912, Armour & Co. sold desiccated
corpus luteum for use in cases of ovarian failure, and said
that it prevented "nervous symptoms accompanying"
menstrual abnormalities.’ It was also used to treat obesity
and other physical conditions sometimes associated with
“ovarian deficiency."

In early reports on the use of synthetic progestins,
they were praised as being active when taken orally, unlike
natural progesterone, which was said to be "destroyed in the
stomach." Although I have looked carefully, I have never
found the study which demonstrated that progesterone was
inactive when taken orally. I am convinced that the idea
was invented by the promoters of the patented new
compounds.

When fats are eaten, they are almost 100% absorbed
by the small intestine. They break up in the intestine into
microscopic droplets, called chylomicrons, and reach the
general circulation in that form. If progesterone is perfectly
dissolved in oil, it is absorbed in that way, and is not
immediately exposed to enzymes in the wall of the intestine
or in the liver. People often speak of "avoiding the liver on
the first pass," but in fact chylomicrons pass through the
liver many times before they are destroyed; after an hour,
10% of the chylomicrons are still circulating.

While dissolved progesterone circulates in the
chylomicrons, it will be distributed to the various tissues.
Unlike other steroid hormones, progesterone tends to
become concentrated inside cells. Its concentration in red
blood cells is twice as high as its concentration in serum,”

63
Progesterone in Orthomolecular Medicine

and the brain contains a still higher concentration. These
intracellular reservoirs of progesterone prolong the elevated
blood levels, so that the observed hormone level after a
single oral dose is much more stable than are the triglyceride
levels after a fatty meal. The perfect absorption, and the
prolonged action make the oil-dissolved oral progesterone
much more efficient and economical than injected or
suppository forms.

Since progesterone tends to promote its own
synthesis, it shouldn't be necessary to keep using it, unless
the ovaries have been removed, or the thyroid or cholesterol
level is very low, or aging has damaged their ability to
convert cholesterol to progesterone. While an excess of
carotene can inhibit progesterone synthesis, a carrot salad
(grated carrots, vinegar, coconut oil, and salt) can often
help to normalize progesterone, apparently by protecting
against intestinal absorption of bacterial endotoxin.

REFERENCES

|. New and Non-Official Remedies, 1912, Supplement,
pages 158, 160.

2. E. Mulder, et al., "Metabolism of free and conjugated

steroids by intact and haemolysed mammalian erythrocytes,"
Biochem. Biophys. Acta 260. 290-297, 1972.

64
PROGESTERONE
IN

ORTHOMOLECULAR
MEDICINE

By Raymond Peat, PhD

Raymond Peat received his PhD in Biology from
the University of Oregon, specializing in
endocrine physiology. His other books include
From PMS to Menopause, Mind and Tissue,
Generative Energy, and Nutrition for Women.
He has taught at the University of Oregon,
Urbana College, Montana State University,
National College of Naturopathic Medicine,
Universidad Veracruzana, and the Universidad
Autonoma del Estado de Mexico, and founded
Blake College, International University. He also
writes a monthly newsletter describing his
research, and _ contributes to professional
journals.

