Darkness, Water, Osteoporosis

By Ramond Peat
(Ruy Peal's Newsletter)

Around 1973, there was an interesting observation, in which eyes |
that had been burned hy ultraviolet rays were treated with red or infra-
red light, and the pain was relieved. Since | had been interested in |
solvated electrons, } wondered if this medical observation might involve |
a mechanism similar to the “bleaching” of trapped electrons in crystals
or glass which has been colored by exposure to x-rays or gamma rays.
Szent-Gyorgyi used to demonstrate that structured matenals, e.g, ice, ,
can stabilize excited states of electrons He was curious about the ex
istence of pigments inside organism, and suggested that they related to

matabolic electrons, since he assumed that external light didn’t reach
these tissues.

In December, | drove in sunny weather all the way to Houston, and
thought about light. Having read that the leaves of deciduous trees go
into a negative protein balance (work by K. Thimann, U.C, Santa Cruz),
as they age in the short days of autumn. | realized that the mechanisms
of aging that [ have discussed in other newsletters could be general for
all living Lhings Knowing that plants have "photo-respiration,” that is,
the respiratory production of usable energy during stimulation by light,
| wondered if animals might have something similar, accounting for winter
sickness, dark-stress, and aging itself

Knowing that photosynthesis uses orange-red light (though other
plant processes are stimulated by other colors), | wondered if that fre-
quency also stimulated photo-respiration. Anyone who has held their
hand over a bright light knows that red light does penetrate tissue. Pineal
researchers planted a photoclectric cell in a sheep's brain, near the pineal
@ana, to see whether significant amounts of light reached that organ
directly, and the device clearly indicated when the animal moved from
shade to sunlight. Sa, when [| got home I was thinking about how to design
an experiment to test the direct effect of red light on tissue respiration,
especially in the brain.

i had been home for a couple of days, when a journal arrived in the
mail, describing exactly the sort of experiment I needed to test the idea.
Rats had a bright red laser beam shined on their heads for 15 minutes,
and then the respiratory enzymes of the Krebs cycle was studied. The
changes were consistent with enhanced respiration. (A. T. Pikulev, et
al., Radiobiology 24{(1):29-34, 1984.) (The red laser hus been used for more
than ten years to promote healing — references will be provided on
request.)

So my present thought is that darkness does in some way ‘‘poison”
respiration, and that light enhances it, possibly by the indirect mechanism
of disposing of electrons that have leaked out of the usable-energy
pathway

WHEN RESPIRATION IS blocked, tissue takes up water. A siiple il-
fustration of this is the cornea — when contact lenses were very Im-
permeable to oxygen, they caused severe corneal swelling | think estrogen
works by the same mechanism (and this explains why so many toxic
substances are estrogenic’). There was a doctrine that cells can move
water only by moving sodium, so medical textbooks say that estrogen
causes sodium retention; but it occurred to someone fo actually measure
the effects of estrogen on sodium and water, and they found that estrogen
causes the fluids to become hypotonic, with a jower than normal sodium
concentration.

Estrogen (like darkness and stress) promotes prolactin secretion. A
previous newsletter discussed the experiments in which sodium sup
pressed prolactin secretion, while taking water without sodium stimulated
it. So it seems likely that hypotonic (or sodium deficient) tissue Muids
might be a common factor in the various situations which increase pro
lactin secretion.

In the salmon which swim up the Columbia river to spawn, the fresh
water, which is very sodium deficient compared to the ocean, does
stimulate the secretion of prolactin, and the prolactin is involved in their
adaptation to the fresh water. The adaptation is very costly, though,
because these fish undergo very rapid aging. Their bones are transform
ed in ways very similar to the bones of other animals in extreme old age: |
for example, the back humps and the jaw juts forward. (Since the fish
vertebrae don’t bear weight as those of a biped do, we shouldn't attribute

the hending

ie ft STPATES Conipression

of the human spine in old age to

Some recent studies have investigated prolactin’s involvement in
calcium disposition, and its contribution of osteoporosis (J. A. Schlechte,
etal., J. Clin. Endocrinol, Metab. 56:1120-1123, 1983; growtit hormone
is closely associated with prolactin, and i mentioned in Nutrition fer
Women that there was some basis for thinking that estrogen might make
osteoporosis worse, acting through the growth hormone. The editor of
the Yearbook of Endocrinology (1984, 273) says “Consider, if hyperprolac-
tinemia leads to osteoporosis, and the administration of estrogens to
postmenopausal women leads to hyperprolactinemia...")

Since it is established that excess prolactin does contribute to
osteoporosis in humans, it seems reasonable to suppose that the dramatic
increase in prolactin secretion when these animals enter fresh water
would be the cause for the equally dramatic skeletal changes in the fish.

It is already known that excess calcium damages respiration and that
calcium is associated with structura} disruption of the mitochondria, and
thal tissues tend to calcify in aging. Inside cells, calcification begins in
the mitochondria; outside cells, for example in blood vessel walls, the
“ground substance” (a fine-textured component of connective tissue) can
become calcified.

I think rational therapy for
osteoporosis would include thyroid,
| Vitamin A, bright light, and either

| pregnenolone or a mixture of proges-
| terone and DHEA, with a diet richin
protein and all the salts: calcium,
magnesium, sodium, and potassium.

Hypotonic fluids are disruptive to life processes and structures Even
lissues which are not very cellular, such as comea, joint cartilage, and
the various “basement membranes” (which are rich in ground substance)
can be damaged.

I suspect that we — fish and humans — have a simple way to protect
ourselves from “hypotonicity,” that is, from a deficiency of salts in our
fluids. (There have been various observations in which one salt can
substitute for another, at least to the extent of preventing an immediate
disaster.) We carry with us a huge reservoir of minerals, our skeleton
In osmotic stress, it is better to lose bone material (and teeth) than to
expenence hypotonic disruption.

Undoubtedly the liberated calcium participates in adaptation in ways
besides preventing swelling of the connective tissues, but [| plan to ex
amine the metabolic effects of calcium in future newsletters. (The bones
also provide a large reservoir of sodium.)

Both prolactin and cortisone are secreted during stress

darkness), and both mobilize calcium. If calcium is so harmful to our

energy producing system, why do the stress hormones dose us with
| think this is largely explained by the generality of hypotonicity in stress
and by the convenience of the skeleton as a mineral reservoir Selye i

luminated estrogen by comparing it with the initial shock phase of the
stress reaction (before adaptation begins), but the value
probably 2 ay, Loo
inadequacy of energy to meet a challenge, and when energ
lent. water is taken up (And same water ts produced
oxygen is electronically reduced: this “respiratior

Y Wie paris

es the othe the essential elemeni .

Darkness, Water & Osteoporosis

Continued from page L340

volved in energy production — even “age pigment” van convert oxygen
tnto water)

Selyve found that various stresses caused connective Ussue disease,
such as scleroderma and arthritis, He didn't explain the mechanism. }
think it is significant that women are much more susceptible to many
connective Lissne diseases than are men. For example, a recent Arthritis
Foundation advertisement says that women are twice as likely as men
to suffer from arthritis. Fibrositis, myositis, elc., are common in women
(i think the studies of adhesions being prevented by progesterone pro-
vide a good model for understanding connective Ussue disease. and
allergies or ‘auto-immune’ diseases; see Maurer and Bonaventura, Fer
nity and Sterility 39(4), p. 485, April 1983.) When cartilage is soaked
in distilled water (or hypotonic bady fluids) tt swells with tremendous
pressure. The microscopic mesh af this connective tissue is nich in
negatively ionized groups, which attract neutralizing positive ions, such
as potassium and sodium. As the neutralizing ions are leached away. the
negative ions repel each other causing swelling and attracting more water
As positively charged calcium ions are made available from the bones,
the swelling is blocked. Continued for a long Ume, this seems likely to
lead to conditions such as arteriosclerosis and scleroderma

STRUCTURAL DISRUPTION of the mitochondria, as well as uncou
pling phosphorylation from respiration, can be caused by cortisone. So
it is Interesting Lo see seasonal] changes in the structure of the niito-
chondria, which are consistent with the ideas I have been talking about,
that winter (and light deficiency in general) is what ages and kills us

Winter stress, elevating cortisone, could also be the reason for the
non-adaptive depression of thyroid function in the winter, Many people
have noticed an association between stress and penodontal disease. Gum
disease is common in hypothyroidism, and bone loss is an important part
of the periodontal) disease, This same endocrine pattern, and not “‘post-
menopausal estrogen deficiency,” is the most hkely explanation for
osteaporosis in aging women

When I was working on my hamster thesis, about 1971, | noticed an
article which reported that aging women’s urine revealed an increased
ralion of estrogen to the |7-keto steroids I think it was that article that

GUFF

scanned

started me thinking of aging generally in terms of a deficiency of anti
estrogens including things such as DHEA

DHEA has been studied in relation to osteyporosis, 1. Hollo, et al
in Acta, Med. Acad. Sct. Hung. (Hungary) 35{1 53-59, 1975. reported thar

Administrauion of norandrosterone decanoate or dehydroepiandrasterone

to patients with menopausal osteoporosis resulted in normalization of
the postload hypercalcemia. Calcium tolerance of menopausal patients
without osteoporosis was not affected by dehydroepiandrosterone

S. Brody, et al., in Maturitas (Netherlands) 4(2) 113-122, 1982, found
significant positive correlations “between basal levels of DHAS and the
DHA response to ACTH respectively, and trabecular bone mineral con
tent of the distal forearm —~

There was a study of prolonged DHEA treatment on rat bones, which
[haven't found. M, Boross, etal, Aktuel Gerontal (Germany) [3C1). 15-18,
]983

| think rational therapy for osteoporosis would include thyroid
vitamin A. bright light. and either pregnenolone or a mixture of pra
gesterone and DHEA, with a diet rich in protein and all the salts: calciurn
magnesium, sodium, and potassium. A bias toward magnesium, rather
than caletum. would protect against many conditions that oceur in aging
and stress

Additional References

i Estrogen and Onenporosis” Nutrition for Homien, pp 44-45
Ahmad. Pet al Antiinflarmatory steroids, lysosomal statulization and paracbor
Chnad J Bieckem (Canada) 53010) 1047057, 1076

| Frolov. VA “Seasonal structural and funetsonal changes in the rabbit heart” Bull
Erp, Biot, & Med 97(4) 425928, 1084

| Pasquali, Ket al “Seasonal vanations of total and free thyroid hormones in healthy
men a chronobiclogical Mtuity” Acta Endoerinelogival WT i245. 164

etece in regard to stress and season. in men. Lhe sper eum

NOTE. A couple

and in both sexes,

ves on the backs of hands when they are held at waist lewe!

Raymond Peat
1358 E. 19th |
Eugene, OR 97403

DEALING IN A WIDE VARIETY OF
MEDICAL SUPPLIES INCLUDING.

* 1.V. THERAPY « INJECTABLES »

* ORAL NUTRITIONALS e
* g.S. FORMULA « DISPOSABLES «

*» SPECIALISTS IN
CHELATION THERAPY

FOR MORE INFORMATION
CALL TOLL FREE
(800) 854-7220

oe
IN CALIFORNIA
(714) 545-2491
COLLECT
3617 Wo MACARTHUR, 8607
SANTA ANA CALIF 92704
