[ Vor Tay DIQlegT JA“

ine Grn end °

"a fasorif &
Hoyt lo B

bole vl ia

fC Lee of ACU PU

le Antes byo Bimpger (€@ by flalee PAYSO gact

AO VY &

le, — ABA) FEI

Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission, Copyright 199% Raymond Peat P.O. Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97405

Hayflickers, Dolly & dandruff:
The “telomeric clock” is not a
valid theory of aging.

The roles of nutrition, estrogen, and
progesterone in stress-related energy
problems: A meaningful pattern for all
organisms.

L. Introduction

Besides the commercially promoted idea that
melatonin has something to do with a “biological
_clock,” there are two main doctrines among biolo-
gists about the nature of the clock that they

suppose exists. One group argues that a group off/

brain cells called the suprachiasmatic nucleus ha
a regular rate of firing that is “determined by
genes” and that controls biological rhythms.
Unfortunately for that t theory, the fring rate 2 of

: “tgstrogen’ § ‘identity. as a hock hormone’
“gives an. insight into the ‘context-dependent.
aging of. cells and carcinogenesis.

The
 pre-respiratory progesterone is. involved as
-estrogen’ s eniaecaist 2 at the scspest } molecu-
Tar levels.” Maas SANS pee So

those cells turns out to be variable under different
conditions of metabolism and temperature (Ruby
and Heller, 1996).

Another general kind of clock is proposed to od

be “determined by the genes,” or genetically
“programmed,” and in this case the clock is
supposed to determine how long an animal can
live,

Neither of these groups has even tried to
dispose of the facts that have accumulated over

several decades suggesting that there is no
independent biological clock at all, but rather
an ability of cells and organisms to perceive
rhythmic environmental conditions. Frank A.
Brown, Jr. (Univ. of Indiana) and Alexandre
Rothen (Rockefeller Univ.) devised many experi-
ments that clearly demonstrated that biochemicai
metabolic and physiological rhythms are respon-
sive to cues other than light and darkness. The
geomagnetic field is one type of cue that has
demonstrable biological effects.

The doctrine of a genetic clock causing aging
denies the role of environmental factors in the
aging process. Cigarette companies argued that
"we don't know the cause of cancer, so go ahead
and smoke." The genetic clock people claim to
know the cause of aging, and that it is not
environmental factors.

; "The s stem ‘call is: ‘defined : as. tliat col i in 2 tissue
which, under normal circumstances, maintainsits own
population, undiminished in function and size, and
: furnishes daughters to provide new functional cells of
that tissue.The daughters. may, Or may not, have to |
- andergo further differentiation and/or maturation in
order to achieve their. functional stage. ‘The funda-.
“mental characteristic of a stem cell, therefore, is self-
renewal. Evidence is presented which implicates the.
microenvironment as a major component of the stem
cell system, without which stem ‘cells . cannot be’
maintained. Furthermore, it is suggested that stem
| cell properties do not reside in oné specific cell type in.
the Population but, when necessary, cells other than
those” normally playing. the stem cell role, can have
stem cell function imposed upon them by the appro-—
priate - microenvironment. The ‘stem -cell "niche"
hypothesis i is presented to explain the dependence of.
stem cells upon. their microenvironment. The postu-:
late is offered that there are no cells which are intrin-_
sically stem cells but that a range of cells in a tissue |
possess ‘stem cell potential to a greater or ‘Jesser
extent." "The stem cell system," R. Schofield, Bionies.
Pharmacother, 1983, 37:8, 375-80, 5 ne

OO CE fA

00S.) Went Dury SOY

he yw 2 vay (oo
[ex live much longer than the animal they came
| from, and that the age of the donor doesn’t deter-
“mine the survival of the transplant.

Studies of the rate of cell division in the lining
of the intestine and of the bone marrow cells that
continuously produce red blood cells throughout
the life-span also have shown gross violations of
the “Hayflick limit.” Dandruff, the result of the
steady division of cells in the epidermis, and the
growth of nails and hair, are easily visible demon-
strations that Hayflick’s observations were just the
result of the special conditions he created in his
cell culture bottles.

The gradual accumulation of support for the
principles Carrel outlined inciudes evidence that
cell-to-cell mteractions (R. Auerbach, 1972),
adequacy of glucose supply, oxygen and carbon
dioxide, appropriate pH, osmolarity, hormones,
extracellular matrix (Gospodarowicz), hormones,
and many regulatory substances including proteins
and fats, can fundamentally change the ability
of cells to divide in culture vessels.

For example, Gospodarowicz, et al. (1983)
found that growing cells on "extracellular matrix,"
and with some natural substances from serum,
rather than on plastic, made the difference
’ between an in vitro longevity of 15 or 24
divisions, and “at least 88” cell divisions. ;

If the “intrinsic cell aging" people want to
talk in terms of “programming,” then we
would have to say that cells are cogistantly
open to "reprogramming," which is to say that
‘they are perceptive and responsive to their
environment. .

Hayflick’s method began with tissue that could
be kept, either at room temperature or at 5
degrees, "for at least 5 days" (and “up to 3 weeks”)

without apparent loss of viability." Although
lactic acid production is a sign of stress, it seems
that Hayflick took it as an indication of life:
"Once the cultures have become confluent cell
sheets, the cells are very active metabolically, as
shown by the fact that the GM [growth medium]
becomes acid faster than in cultures of hetero-
ploid cell lines inoculated with the same number
of cells." “Although mitotic activity eventually
ceases in the culture, acid production continues;
and as dictated by drops in the pH, cultures can be

<A> Cell Met por Vira fe A depend &

fed for a few months until all acid production
ceases and the culture is observed to have
completely degenerated". Among the _midicu-
lously antiphysiological conditions used in
Haflick’s experiments was the addition of high
concentrations of penicillin and streptomycin, or
aureomycin, to the growth medium. (See Persha-
dang, et al., 1982.) He refers to Carrel's
techniques as "primitive," and says “In any event,
Carrel's experiment has never been confirmed."
(Carrel's experiment continued for 35 years, so it
will be a while before anyone repeats it.)

Carrel's "primitive" method involved frequent
addition of chick embryo extract rather than

Hayflick's commercial solutions of salts, buffers, ‘

and antibiotics, with the addition of very small
amounts of calf or horse serum. Using fluids
from the same species, from an embryo rather
than from an adult, and avoiding harmful
additives, might be more properly called a sophis-
ticated technique, rather than primitive incompe-
tence. (Smith, et al., 1985, showed that DNA
"repair capacity was always found to bé greatest
in medium supplemented with autologous
plasma.") ;

The essence of the telomeric clock doctrine is
that the telomere shortens with aging, making cell
division impossible, and causing the organism to
suffer the symptoms of aging, while the "immor-
tal germ cells and cancer cells" have active
telomerase that allows them to. maintain long
telomeres. Besides the "inappropriate" telomere
Jength that has been seen in some individuals of
different ages, there are so many exceptions to the
Tule that it is inaccurate to speak ofa rule.

Mice, with a very short life-span, have
active telomerase in their body tissues, while
people normally don't. Telomerase isn't
needed to form or maintain telomeres. Some
cancers have long telomeres, some don't.
Telomere length varies between organs in the
same animal, and even between chromosomes
in the same cell.

To say that the theory of the telomeric-mitotic
clock is complete junk is not to question the

importance of the telomere itself--like any part of -

the cell, it is complex, important, and interesting.

(6% Sloe Brome & c, Pd, Gogimyra,

YA Gi 7 .
Cry, Wide LA (EAA na APIAKE Fen Ay PCA Merge G Sonn tar mniny ordre

Reparatian Ln DVLA YL Per ecto, Mista af Hie bere oK se

IV. DNA, stress, and estrogen

HAle Unb ha VAbig

Kil Shak tA fain b fae &

If Hayflick and Carrel have anything in’
common, it is the observation ing is clo
associated with the slowing Of cell division.

Carrel's observation that the rate of healing is
slower in old individuals has been repeated in
different systems, for example (Lambert, et al.,
1979) showing that DNA repair synthesis is
retarded in cells from old people. Estrogen also
slows DNA repair (O'Brien, 1993), as weil as
causing increased DNA breakage.

Estrogen's identity as a shock-hormone gives
an insight into the context-dependent aging of
cells and carcinogenesis. The pro-respiratory
progesterone is involved as estrogen's antagonist
at the deepest molecular levels.

Fifty years ago, estrogen was shown to imitate
all of the physiological features of the shock
phase of the stress reaction, and later it was found
that histamine and estrogen (and now, nitric
oxide) have parallel shock-promoting actions.

More recently, cells (all kinds of cell, includ-
ing bacteria) have been found to have a system of
proteins, called heat shock proteins, that are
produced in response to any stress or shock, and
estrogen tums out to have a very close association
with these stress-induced proteins. Estrogen
induces the heat shock proteins, and the heat

shock proteins activate or stabilize the estrogen

receptor, so that injury in general facilitates
the action of estrogen on the cell. Progesterone
and its receptor have an opposite and antagonistic
effect on the heat shock proteins.

_ In 1970, my proposal that the estrogenic state
and the senescent state were very closely related
seemed strange to people who had heard estrogen
treatment promoted as the way to prolong youth
and to stay "forever feminine," but a few years
after I had finished my dissertation, Terry Parken-
ing, who had worked in Proferssor Soderwall's lab
at the same time I had, began publishing observa-
tions of elevated estrogen levels in a variety of
aging animals. Estrogen is now known to
increase with athletic stress, trauma, sickness,
endotoxin poisoning, etc., and to be an essential
factor in prostate cancer, as well as in essentially
all other cancers, so it doesn't seem to be such a

big step to go from “stress hormone" to "age
hormone.” Estrogen ts beginning to lose its false
identity as the “female hormone," which was
always just a promotional concept of the pharma-
ceutical industry. Hundreds of false claims have
been made about estrogeh's “youth promoting"
effects, but they always turn out to be the opposite
of what is claimed. For example, "estrogen
increases the collagen content of skin," but in fact
collagen accumulation is characteristic of aging,
radiation injury, and many other types of damage.
"Estrogen makes the skin plumper,” but it is by
causing water retention; bloating might stretch
wrinkly skin until it is smooth, or even tight, but a
swollen old face is, if anything, biologically older
than a lean and creased face. (I have discussed
many other such advertising ploys in my books,
e.g., From PMS to Menopause: Hormones in
Context.)

The types of adaptation to stress that are
known to occur both in vitro and in normal aging
of the anima!, include the various defensive
systems such as the heat shock proteins, which
are induced by stresses that interfere with the
cell's energy supply.

During the last 35 years there have been many
demonstrations that cells in culture do not get an
optimal amount of oxygen. (Wolffe, et al., 1984;
for example.) Kondo et al. (1997) have recently
shown that cells grown at the interface where the

culture medium meets the air are more like

normal cells: They “possess highly differentiated
functions and structures compared with the cells
cultured under immersion." Previously, as
Warburg pointed out, it was found that the cells
that grow in a sheet on the bottom of the vessel
were much more oxygen-deprived than the cells
which are immersed, but suspended, and receive
oxygen and nutrients from all sides.

Suffocation and x-ray injury produce an
estrogen-like response in animals. The oxygen
deprivation in tissue culture, which Warburg
showed created the characteristic cancer

’ metabolism, produces the pro-estrogenic heat

shock proteins, as well as other stress
substances. The antagonism of progesterone to
the actions of this heat stress system gives us

ra cal Gr) trtrA cere fet « heat sGock pork hhc Boiss MH shane df Ann.

LA ny Oss 4 ALAM iret? 1 Se Furr ter hoa nw

active ler vecteht 2 /wAte

o Ay
wt Mae

an

Sete B® aut fe

volt

Stace AEE, BieSine, malady, Laber at by he A

*
4

ca

LA

aera

7

AA
further insight into how to redirect cells away
from the stress pathway.

During oxidative stress, a variety of stress
proteins are produced, besides the heat shock
system. Heme oxygenase, which produces carbon
monoxide, is one of these stress proteins, and I
have previously discussed how this stress-induced
production of carbon monoxide could stabilize the
cells’ dedifferentiated tumor-producing _ state,
since carbon monoxide produces what Warburg
thas characterized as the "cancer metabolism,"
aerobic glycolysis, in which cells produce lactic
acid even in the presence of oxygen. In Hayflick's
original article (Hayflick and Moorhead, 1961),
the production of iactic acid by the cells doesn't
seem to be of interest to the authors. I have also
introduced the idea that the stress-proteins could
have far reaching effects through an effect on the
structure of water. :

But apart from those points, it is now well
established that the heat shock proteins stabilize
and reinforce the effects of estrogen. Estrogen
tends to shift cells away from differentiated
functioning and toward simple cell division, a sort
of dedifferentiation. This cell division is impor-
tant for reproduction, and it is also part of a basic
process of tissue regeneration. During stress or
injury, as well as in normal growth, cells have
to make the basic decision of whether to grow
or to die in the non-inflammatory process
called apoptosis, or to differentiate and contrib-
ute to the functional systems of the organism.
The heat shock/estrogen system protects cells
against “altruistic cell death," but ordinarily the
organism rescues the cells from that dedifferenti-
ated state by providing energy, oxygen, and
signals to restore them to an appropriate
functional state.

The stress pathway at first stimulates cell
division, directing cells to differentiate down a
pathway that is useful in tissue repair, but this
stress-response is not useful in the culture dish,
and the absence of the rest of the organism means
that nothing will come from their growth decision,
other than persisting under the damaging, stressful
conditions.

In Hayflick's cell culture, the cells were

learly under sufficient stress to activate their

Tees

Ath ¢ fas Ve tial

Cfawe  Hewer Okvo tare ( Polerms) beavel  Garbua antumen, dy ct han Dermé tans (one g
ne talto du Cater 2 AMER Ato Aue Gor).

estrogenic cell division process, but in the
absence of either adequate energy or appropriate
signals, they were on a dead-end path. The
specific substances in the culture medium could
be investigated if we needed to know the detailed
cellular physiology of that dead-end path, but
giving serious. scientific consideration to
Hayflick's doctrine is itself a dead-end path.

The editors of Experimental Cell Research,
who devoted 36 pages to the 1961 article, and 22
pages to the 1965 article, bear a portion of
responsibility for publishing ndiculous, illogical,
unfounded, and simply false statements; it would
be hard to identify any standard of quality that
was followed in accepting those articles for publi-
cation. The mass media can't be blamed too
much in this case, because the scientific media
themselves have been manipulated.

To talk about "reversing aging" by adding
telomerase to cells reminds me of the advertise-
ments for an apparatus that allowed you to recline
with your head lower than your feet, except that
when you age upside down, by lying around on
that device, there is a silly grain of truth in the
claim that you have “reversed” the aging process.

The fact that cells are always open to
"reprogramming, which simply means
responding appropriately to their environment,
is an important thing to keep in mind. Alexis °
Carrel's experiments are still the best demonstra-
tion that biological aging is essentially a response
to something in the cells' environment. Carrel's
emphasis on fats as an important aspect of aging
is massively supported by research in nutrition,
organ transplantation, and tissue culture.

It is now clear that estrogen is intimately
related to the universal stress-reaction system,
the heat shock proteins. Progesterone, the most
direct and general antagonist to estrogen, is
now seen to be involved in this fundamental]
system—it opposes the actions of the stress
proteins, and the stress proteins mediate the
factors which cause a progesterone deficiency.

Progesterone, thyroid, saturated fats, and
light are primary antistress factors which have
already been shown to protect against.some of
the effects of aging (such as autoimmune

H.S.P festio 24 eshe sO Fk [a ho fRiw catia cel vee dedi F Peauatae

reactions), and against the stresses which
contribute to aging, and in many cases to
reverse age-associated changes that have
already occurred (such as regenerating the
thymus). To fully reverse aging we need to know
all of the factors that causé if} Dolly is proof that
adult cells are not, in themselves, "old," and is
confirmation that Carrel was on the right track.

REFERENCES |

Antipenko AYe, Antipenko YN, Adv Enzyme
Regul 1994;34:173-198, “Thyroid hormones and
regulation of ‘cell reliability systems,” Institute of
Physiology, St. Petersburg University, Russia. “Data
and argumenis are presented that provide evidence of a
role played by thyroid hormones (TH) in cell reliabil-
ity improvement, This role may be determined by
synergistic TH action on the following key cell
reliability systems: (1) reactive oxygen species
(ROS) attack inhibition, and (2) genetic structure
repair from injuries inflicted in the course of
endogenous and induced mutagenesis. (1) New
approaches to ROS oxidation defence were examined.
It has been shown that Ca(2+)-ATPase and, probably,
regulatory proteins of cell membranes may be the main
target for oxidative attack. Protein phosphorylation as
well as use of dithiothreitol will lead to a protective
action against Ca2+ transport damaging in aorta
smooth muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum under oxidation
by HOCI, the most toxic ROS of activated neutrophils,
whereas thyroxine (T4) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine
(T3) validly inbibit chemiluminescence in human
neutrophils activated by pyrogenal, a lipopolysaccha-
ride from Salmonella typhi cell wall. As this takes
place, TH most likely biock neutrophil stimulation at
the receptor-ligand interaction level. In this case L-T4
and L-T3 antioxidative effect is greater than that of
DL-thyroxine and much greater than that produced by
such a potent antioxidant as 4-methyl-2,6-dtisobutyl
phenol. (2) T4 acts as reparogen in rat liver cells
under X-ray irradiation when a dose measuring
one-half of daily hormone production by the
normally functioning thyroid gland is administered
to animals. Ionizing radiation dose reduction factor
reached 1.3-1.4 following T4 administration. Reparo-
genic effect of T4 persists for at least 2 months
from the moment the hormone has been adminis-
tered and can be reduced in the presence of dinitrophe-
nol. It is important to note that antioxidant and
reparogenic TH potential can manifest itself within
the range of physiologic concentrations of these
hormones. Therefore, stimulation of cell reliability

systems with TH may prove to be important for
correcting conditions caused by errors in energy-
and Ca(2+)-dependent DNA repair under exten-
sive ROS attack In particular, taking into account
different responsiveness of normal and neoplastic
tissues to TH, the use of TH reparogenic as well as
antioxidant potential may contribute significantly to
the unprovement of antitumor radiotherapy efficacy.

Baraboi VA, Nikiforova. NA, Moskalenko IP,
Radiobiologiia 1990 May;30(3):305-307, "[The ability
of peripheral blood lymphocytes to repair DNA and
the survival of rats].[Article in Russian]," "Individual
and group differences were revealed in the capacity of
rat peripheral blood lymphocytes of DNA repair in
response to the DNA damaging test-effect of iuradia-
tion in vitro. The survival rate of rats irradiated with a
dose inducing 50-per cent death was in a definite
relationship with the repair capacity of blood lympho-
cyte DNA im each animal individual prior to
irradiation.”

Byrne E, Dennett X, Trounce I, Rev Neurol (Paris)
1991; 147(6-7):532-535. "Oxidative energy failure
in post-mitotic cells: a major factor in senescence.”
“A significant decline with age in state DI respira-
tion rates has been documented in man and experi-
mental animals in several tissues.” Focal areas of
cytochrome oxidase negativity, resembling those in
skeletal muscle fibres in patients with chronic progres-
sive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) syndromes,
appear in old age. The mitochondrial genome is
susceptible to mutation because of a high turnover rate,
ineffective DNA repair mechanisms and a hostile
environment rich in free radicals. The available data
supports the development of mitochondrial failure in
old age in fixed post-mitotic tissues suggesting that
mitochondnal failure may be central to the senescent
process."

Mydlarski MB, Liberman A, Schipper HM,
Neurobiol Aging 1995 16(6):977-981, "Estrogen
induction of glial heat shock proteins: implications
for hypothalamic aging." "In the aging mammahan
hypothalamus, a unique subpopulation of glial cells
accumulates peroxidase-positive cytoplasmic inclu-
sions distinct from lipofuscin. In adult rodents, this
senescence-dependent glial granulation is accelerated
by administration of estradiol valerate. In the present
study, brain sections derived from male rats given 3
monthly intramuscular injections of estradiol valerate
(0.2 mg or 2.0 mg) were immunostained for heat shock
proteins and glial fibrillary acidic protein to determine

whether a glial stress response is wumplicated in
estrogen-induced granulation. Our findings indicate
that estrogen elicits a heat shock response and
subsequent granulation in astrocytes residing in
estradiol receptor-rich brain regions including the
arcuate nucleus and the wall surrounding the third
ventricle but not in estradiol receptor-deficient
regions such as the striatum and corpus callosum.
The heat shock proteins induced by estrogen,
namely, the 27, 72, and 90 kDa stress proteins, are
upregulated in astrocytes in response to oxidative
challenge supperting our hypothesis that estrogen
mediates senescent changes in the rodent
‘hypothalamus through oxidative mechanisms."

Castagnetta LA, Carruba G, Ciba Found Symp
1995;191:269-286, "Human prostate cancer: a direct
role for oestrogens.”

Gospodarowicz D; Hirabayashi K; Giguere L;
Tauber JP, "Factors controlling the proliferative rate,
final cell density, and life span of bovine vascular
smooth muscle cells in culture," J Cell Biol, 1981 Jun,
89:3, 568-78 “Low density vascular smooth muscle
(VSM) cell cultures maintained on
extracellular-matrix(ECM)-coated dishes and plated in
the presence of either plasma or serum will proliferate
actively when serum-containing medium is replaced
by a synthetic medium supplemented with three
factors: high density lipoprotemm (HDL, 250 micro-
grams protein/ml); insulin (2.5 micrograms/ml) or
somatomedin C (10 ng/ml); and fibroblast growth
factor (FGF, 100 ng/ml) or epidermal growth factor
(EGF, 50 ng/ml). The omission of any of these three
factors from the synthetic medium results in a
lower growth rate of the cultures, as well as in a lower
final cell density once cultures reach confluence. When
cells are plated in the total absence of serum, transfer-
rin (10. micrograms/ml) is also required to induce
optimal cell growth. The effects of the substrate and
medium supplements on the life span of VSM cultures
have also been analyzed. Cultures maintained on

plastic and exposed to medium supplemented with

5% bovine serum underwent 15 generations.
However, when maintained on ECM-coated dishes
the serum-fed cultures had a life span of at least 88
generations. Likewise, when cultures were
maintained in a synthetic medium supplemented with
HDL and either FGF or EGF, an effect on the tissue
culture life span by the substrate was observed.
Cultures maintained on plastic underwent 24 genera-
tions, whereas those maintained on ECM-coated dishes
-could be passaged repeatedly for 58 generations. These

experiments demonstrate the influence of the
ECM-substrate only in promoting cell growth but also
in increasing the longevity of the cultures."

Jorge AD, Stat AO, Roig LV, Ponce G, Jorge
OA, Ciocca DR, “Steroid receptors and heat-shock
proteins in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis,"
Hepatology. 1993 Nov; 18(5): 1108-1114.

Khanna A, Aten RF, Behnoan HR, Endocmnol-
ogy 1995 136(4):1775-1781, "Physiological and
pharmacological inhibitors of luteinizing hormone-
dependent steroidogenesis induce heat shock
protein-70 in rat luteal cells."

Kondo M, Tamaoki J, Sakai A, Kameyama S,
Kanoh S, Konno K., Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 1997
16(1):62-68. “Increased oxidative metabolism in cow
tracheal epithelial cells cultured at air-liquid interface.”
"Airway epithelial cells cultured at the air-liquid inter-
face possess highly differentiated functions and struc-
tures compared with the cells cultured under immer-
sion. We examined the oxidative metabolism and
glycolysis in cow tracheal epithelial ceils on Days 3, 6,
10, and 13, cultured under three different conditions:
(1) immersion culture on porous filters with apical and
basolateral feeding (IM), (2) aur-exposed culture on
porous filters with basolateral feeding, 1.¢., air-liquid
interface culture (AI), and (3) conventional immersion
culture in plastic dishes with apical feeding (DD.
Lactate production was less in Al than in IM and
DI on Day 3 through Day 13, whereas cellular
adenosine triphosphate content and basal O2
consumption were greater. Ouabain-sensitive and
ouabain-insensitive O2 consumption, and the uncou-
pled O2 consumption were also greater in AI.
Cytosolic lactate dehydrogenase activities on Day 10
were lower in AJ, whereas alpha-ketoglutarate
dehydrogenase activities were higher. The increased
oxidative metabolism in Al was more pronounced at
the late phase of culture (Days 10 and 13). In contrast,
glycolysis remained elevated during the experiment in
IM and DI. These data suggest that (1) AI begins to
promote oxidative metabolism from growth phase by

' the provision of adequate oxygenation, and then

further shifts to oxidative metabolism with differentia-
tion; and (2) apical feeding may be responsible for the
disturbance of the development of the oxidative
metabolism."

Lambert B, Ringborg U, Skoog L, Cancer Res
1979 39(7 Pt 1):2792-2795. "Age-related decrease of

ultraviolet light-induced DNA repair synthesis in

TN
human peripheral leukocytes," "The capacity for ultra-
violet light-induced DNA repair synthesis, studied in
peripheral leukocytes from 58 healthy subjects 13 to
94 years old, was found to vary greatly between
individuals. A negative, statistically significant correla-
tion was obtained between age and this synthesis,
indicating a decrease in repair capacity with age. An
age-related decrease in DNA repair may increase the
susceptibility of cells to agents causing DNA damage,
i.e. carcinogens and certain cytostatic drugs."

O'Brien SN, Larcom LL, Baxley EG, Horm Res
1993; 39(5-6):24 1-246. "Correlates of plasma corti-
sol and DNA repair in human peripheral lympho-
cytes: suppression of repair in women taking estro-
gen.” "We have examined the relationship between
total plasma cortisol concentration and DNA repair
capacity in human peripheral lymphocytes cultured in
vitro; the data indicate that high concentrations of
cortisol (> 20 micrograms/dl) inhibit DNA repair. The
inhibitory effect can be abrogated by the addition of
RU38486, a cortisol antagonist. In addition, we
compared plasma cortisol concentration and in vitro
DNA repair capacity in 52 healthy individuals.
Females on therapeutic estrogen (oral contraceptive
or estrogen replacement therapy) had significantly
elevated plasma cortisol and suppression of DNA
repair capacity."

Pershadsingh HA, Martin AP, Vorbeck ML, Long
JW Jr, Stubbs EB, Jr, J Biol Chem 1982
257(21):12481-12484. "Ca2+-dependent depolariza-
tion of energized mitochondrial membrane potential by
chlortetracycline (aureomycin)." "The addition of
chlortetracycline (CTC) to succinate-energized rat liver
mitochondria resulted in depolarization of the
membrane potential and decreased respiratory
control. CTC inhibited both processes at concentra-
tions that were half maximally effective at approxi-
mately 13 and 16 microM, respectively. These
inhibitory effects were prevented by either the Ca2+
chelator, ethylene glycol _ bis(beta-aminoethyl
ether)-N,N,N’,N'-tetraacetic acid, or the inhibitor of
mitochondrial Ca2+ influx, ruthenium red. These
findings are consistent with the formation of a
membrane associated calcium-CTC complex and
suggest that CTC can alter mitochondnal energy
metabolism during transmembrane Ca2+ cycling."

Smith ME, Larcom LL, Freeman SE, Chem Biol
Interact 1985 Aug;54(3):325-335 “Serum effects on
- DNA repair in human cells.” "Freshly isolated human
lymphocytes were used to determine how serum

were performed with multiple

supplements affect cellular capacity to repair UV
damage. Repair capacity was always found to be
greatest in medium supplemented with autologous
plasma. Variability in repair capacity among
individuals was greater in serum supplemented
medium than in unsupplemented medium. Thus, in
vitro cellular responses will most accurately repre-

‘sent in vivo responses if autologous serum factors

are present in the culture medium. This is of
particular importance in studies attempting to
correlate DNA repair capacity with age or suscepti-
bility to carcinogenesis.”

Piotrowicz RS, Weber LA, Hickey E, Levin EG.,
FASEB J 1995 Aug;9(11):1079-1084, “Accelerated
growth and senescence of arterial endothelial cells
expressing the small molecular weight heat-shock
protein HSP27.” “Bovine arterial endothelial cells
were stably transfected with the human wild-type (wt)
HSP27 or a mutant gene (mu) encoding a nonphospho-
rylatable form of the protein. At early passage both
cultural and cellular morphology were similar,
although the vacuole content in wtHSP27 was much
higher than muHSP27 cells. As the cultures aged,
wtHSP27 cells became large, polymorphic, highly
vacuolated, and reached’ senescence before
muHSP27 transfected cultures, which remained
small and polygonal! with few detectable vacuoles.
Vector control cells showed an _ intermediate
phenotype. Tritiated thymidine incorporation studies
wtHSP27 and
muHSP27 clones and the results compared with 11
vector control clones. The results showed an average
increase in growth rate for the wtHSP27 cells of 3.0
+/- 0.6 times. The growth rate of eight muHSP27
clones showed a slight decrease. Estradiol treatment
of endothelial cells resulted in an increase in both
bovine and human HSP27, with peak expression at
100 nM. Treatment of the vector-transfected cells with
100 nM estradiol resulted in a 1.44 +/- 0.18 fold
increase in growth rate, which was blocked by expres-
sion of muHSP27. These data demonstrate a role
for HSP27 in controlling the growth rate of
endothelial cells in an_ estrogen-responsive
manner." :

Ruby, NF, Heller, HC., J Biol Rhythms
11(2):126-136, 1996, "Temperature sensitivity of the
suprachiasmatic nucleus of ground squirrels and rats in
vitro."

Tang PZ, Gannon MJ, Andrew A, Miller D, Eur J
Endocrinol 1995 133(5):598-605, “Evidence for

oestrogenic regulation of heat shock protein expression
in human endometnum and steroid-responsive cell
lines.” "HSP 70a and HSP 90 alpha expression were
stimulated by oestradiol Progesterone generally
depressed HSP 90 alpha expression and simultane-
ous addition of both oestradiol and progesterone to
the culture medium was antagonistic to HSP 90
alpha expression."

Wolffe AP, Glover JF, Tata JR, Exp Cell Res
1984 Oct;154(2):581-590 "Culture shock. Synthesis
of heat-shock-like proteins in fresh primary cell
cultures." "The isolation of Xenopus liver, lung and
testis cells by collagenase digestion of the tissue,
followed by Percoll density gradient centrifugation,
was characterized by the preferential synthesis of two
proteins whose size and charge were similar to 70
and 85 kD heat-shock proteins. The synthesis of
these two heat-shock-like proteins, relative to that of
total protein, declined gradually in the first 3-4 days
after the cells were plated out for primary culture. In
fresh primary cultures of liver parenchymal cells
albumin mRNA concentration declined rapidly and
plateaued at 3-4 days of culture. Freshly isolated male
Xenopus hepatocytes were refractory to induction by
estrogen of vitellogenin gene transcription but they
reacquired hormonal response during the first 3 days of
culture. Both of these differentiated phenotypic
functions of the Xenopus hepatocytes were quantita-
tively associated with the decline in synthesis of
hsp-like proteins in freshly prepared primary cell
cultures. Freshly isolated or heat-shocked hepatocytes
_ exhibited a rounded shape with little intercellular
contacts, whereas during the recovery period of 3 days
they acquired a flattened shape with a high degree of
intercellular and cell-substratum interaction. These
results present the first evidence for the preferential
synthesis of heat-shock-like proteins by procedures
_ for establishing primary cell cultures. They empha-.
size the necessity of monitoring oormal and heat-
shock protein synthesis and cell morphology before
using primary cell cultures for studying normal
regulatory and developmental processes.”

Wu WX, Derks JB, Zhang Q, Nathanielsz PW,
Endocrinology 1996 137(12):5685-5693 "Changes in
heat shock protein-90 and -70 messenger ribonucleic
acid in uterine tissues of the ewe in relation to parturi-
tion and regulation by estradiol and progesterone,”
"Steroid receptors, including estrogen receptor (ER)
and progesterone receptors (PR), form associations
with heat shock proteins (Hsps). Dissociation of Hsps
activates PR, whereas retention of Hsp90 in vitro

stimulates ER. Progesterone and estrogen, interacting
with their receptors, regulate myometrial contractility
throughout pregnancy and during parturition. We
hypothesize that uterine ER and PR changes concur-
rent with changes in Hsp90 and -70 abundance could
alter uterine function." “Dramatic tissue-specific
increases in Hsp90 and -70 mRNA were observed in
myometrium and endometrium (P < 0.05) during
spontaneous and glucocorticoid-induced labor. Hsp90
and -70 mRNA localized in myometrial, arterial
smooth muscle, and endometrial gland epithelial cells.
Estradiol increased Hsp90 and -70 mRNA in
poyometrium and endometrium of nonpregnant ewes.
Progesterone did not affect Hsp90 and -70 mRNA
abundance, but inhibited the estradiol-stimulated
increase. These data support our hypothesis that at
term, increased abundance of Hsp90 and -70 may
inhibit uterine PR and stimulate ER function in uterine
tissues. Similar changes, if present, would be of impor-
tance in species showing no progesterone withdrawal
before labor, such as primates, including pregnant
women."

Zeman EM, Pearson Cl, Brown JM, Radiat Res
1990; 122(1):72-76, "Induction of hypoxia in glass
versus Permanox petri dishes," “The survival of
Chinese hamster ovary cells in culture following
graded doses of X rays delivered under aerobic and
hypoxic conditions, or treatment with the bioreductive
drug SR 4233 under hypoxic conditions, was evaluated
as a function of whether cells were plated onto glass or
Permanox plastic petri dishes. In the case of treatment
with SR 4233, the influence of varying the total
volume of medium in the dishes was also studied.
While the Permanox petri dishes were sufficient to
yield "radiobiological” hypoxia, that is, oxygen
enhancement ratios of approximately 3.0 were
obtained for X uradiation, they were inferior to glass
pet. dishes with respect to the hypoxia-selective
cytotoxicity of SR 4233. For a 90-min hypoxic
exposure to 40 microM SR 4233, the surviving
fraction of cells plated on plastic dishes averaged
about 50-fold higher than that of cells plated on glass
dishes. Although varying the total medium volume did
affect the extent of SR 4233-induced cytotoxicity for
glass dishes--drug toxicity decreased slightly with
increasing medium volume--this was not the case for
the plastic dishes, in which the cell survival following
a fixed SR 4233 exposure was essentially constant as a
function of medium volume. These results suggest, at
least for SR 4233, and under these experimental condi-
tions, that Permanox petri dishes are not satisfactory
for such studies.”

