[ SIT AA giver | otiqimn G2 AMET
le al ud fen dn poatgrA 2 du nei harvey be, Dennemekyn

Pros piqsiarrle Ie onvten & Yorum
Ray Peat's Newsletter

Not for republication without written permission. P.O. Box 5764, Eugéne, OR 97405 Copyright Ray Peat 199%
te Stamm allan c35ot le Sherk. for fas reece | back O barr gu
Recharging the System use at least a quart of milk and a quart of orange
juice daily, well salted chicken broth, and frequent
Adelle Davis wrote about the importance of snacks, especially salty foods. I have written be-
increased salt intake in adrenal failure, and animal fore about the importance of fruit and protein in
experimenters have demonstrated that with ade- _ balancing the hormones, and how adequate energy
quate sodium and sugar, animals can function nor- _ prevents stress, but I haven't talked about sodium's

mally, withont their adrenals. Hans Selye central biological role in sustaining our energy,
demonstrated that progesterone supplemems kup = aid the mechanisms behind these effects of diet
animals healthy for their entire life after their and hormones.
adrenals have been removed. Among its many ef- Shock is the most extreme stress-state there is,
fects, progesterone regulates the levels of sodium _and it can shift gradually into death, as energy pro-
and glucose. duction ceases. Things that can bring an individual

Progesterone is both an antistress hormone out of shock are so intimately connected with our
_and an antishock hormone; shock is the state that energy production that we should understand how
to use them routinely.
| In shock, G. W. Crile showed that many sys-
tems, ranging from the molecular level to the nerv-
ous level, are involved, and he introduced methods
of anesthesia that reduced shock. He imagined the
fluid on which to contract. Much used to be organism--and each cell--as something like an .
written about ‘the mystery of the lost blood."" electrical battery: The liver and the brain formed

W. Boyd, A Text-Book of Pathology, 1943. the poles of the organism-battery, and the nucleus
= and cytoplasm formed the cell's “poles." Exhaus-

tion and shock, he believed, in some way "dis-
charged" the organism's energy, causing changes
in every cell.

| “The essence” of shock "seems to be a rela-
tive disappearance of blood from the heart and
great vessels, so that the heart has not sufficient

occurs when our defenses are down, and stress is
inet a little higher an the scale of resistances, aid

neither will occur when our resources are ade- "The use of CO2 for synthetic purposes by
quate. In any bad biological situation, estrogen is the mammalian cell is now being studied in de-
likely to accumulate, interfering with energy pro- | tail; it has already taken on tremendous signifi-
duction, causing blood to pool in the legs, causing _| cance since it completely reverses the hitherto

water retention and sodium loss. : firmly accepted view that CO2 is merely a waste
Thyroid, progesterone, protein, and salt are | product of animal metabolism. R. Levine, "Car-
powerful defenses against all sorts of stress- bohydrate Metabolism," in Diseases of Metabo-
associated symptoms, including hot flashes, insom- lism, G.G. Duncan, ed., 1964.
nia, cramps, PMS, edema, toxemia of pregnancy, “he
low-birth-weight babies, epilepsy, heart diseases, I suspect that Crile's work on the physiology
hypertension, strokes, migraine, inflammatory dis- of excitement, exhaustion, and shock made Hans
eases, hypoglycemia, fatigue and depression. The _Selye's work on stress and adaptation "less unac-
first approach to an appropriate diet would be to ceptable" to the scientific establishment than it

Chace stake ~ [Gu auer Mea ply s Cp gar %
TAY Poh POS & Sef PHB Con far fe strum

NAlo kong

Cour tan ber be Shuk Suorum ,G lusesey ATP daa jectad/e Cbikege G Aarar Bin

would have been without Crile's disturbing prece-
dent. Cnle warned about the shock-promoting ac-
tion of morphine, and influenced the way surgery
was done, but unfortunately shock is still too often
thought of in a mechanical way, as something that
happens to the circulatory system, and the various
subsequent discoveries about treating shock have
seemed too mysterious or too implausible to gain
general acceptance. In the absence of a unifying
picture of the organism, treatments are likely to be
evaluated in terms of a fragmented aspect of the
organism, and if they don't mechanically fit into
that system in an obvious way, they are dismissed.

I have written previously about several dra-
matically effective treatments for shock that were
developed in the last fifty years--for example, in-
travenous ATP, concentrated solutions of sodium
chloride or glucose, and the morphine/endorphin-
blocker, naloxone. Theoretical reasons have kept
- some of these techniques from being used as
widely as would be appropriate, but gradually the
success of the methods is forcing some people to
rethink their theones.

A simple newer view of the organism's energy
is being developed, and early acceptance of this
new view will make it possible to approach treat-
ment in a way that is both integrated and specific.

Although Crile and Selye were famous for
their studies of the acute effects of noxious condi-
tions, both were interested in the long-term, cumu-
lative effects. Crile was more explicit about the
general evolutionary implications of his
discoveries.

Orie of the least scientific aspects of conventi-
tonal "evolutionary thinking” is the thought that if
an organism has or does something, that thing or
behavior must have "survival value." People apply
evolutionary explanations in a carefree way, feel-
ing that an explanation without factual support is
better than leaving something unexplained.

Shock, inflammation, aging and death have
been proposed to “have survival value," be-
cause Of this totalitarian view of genetics.
Couldn't it be that organisms simply aren't perfect,
and that some things are just systematically
screwed up? That 1s, an organism has a certain
strength, resistance, or adaptive capacity, but if it
finds itself in conditions that are too difficult, then

processes that never did anything to aid survival
might develop, as several individually valid defen-
sive maneuvers ‘start to interfere with each other.
"Advance" and “retreat,” eat and expel, for exam-
ple, are processes that have to be functionally
separated; if coordination is lost, new but con-
fused processes “will emerge. On the cellular level,
excitotoxicity is an example of the loss of
_coordination. oe
“—~Tn 1950 Selye, and in 1953, Rees, pointed out
the similarities of estrogen's effects to the physiol-
ogy of stress and shock. Hundreds of studies have —
confirmed the details of estrogen's actions on the
circulatory system, respiration, and metabolism.
Since we have the genes needed for making estro-
gen, it might seem that there is reason to argue
that shock "has a genetic basis," but the mistake
occurs when that phraseology is extended to claim
that "genes for (something which produces) shock
prove that shock has survival value." Estrogen's
survival value exists only in the context of a whole
organism with multiple ways for limiting estrogen's
destabilizing actions. Estrogen’s harmful effects
occur when our systems for opposing it fail.
Recently, there has been a dispute_about-the
reason for the evolution of menstruation among

- Cramps, insomnia, shock, heart attacks, and
many other problerfis could be seen as conse-
| quences of a general energy problem, if it were-
n't for a few dogmatically fixed ideas that are
held in place by academic/bureaucratic defen-
siveness and arrogance. "Membranes" and
"membrane pumps" are more important than

(other people's) life to these dogmatists.

primates. The argument began when Margie Pro-

fet proposed that it_is_an_anti“infective_defense
mechanism, a “cleansing” procedure. Culturally,
this strikes me as primarily a reaction against the
archaic doctrine of the "unclean" menses, and sci-
entifically, it is hard to imagine that opening blood
vessels and bathing the membranes in blood would
be an anti-infective strategy; in fact, _infections
such as gonorrhea and chlamydia are more likely
to occur after menstruation, and blood is an ex-
ceedingly good growth medium for germs. Her

response to that observation was that the preva-
lence of diseases such as AIDS, cholera, and tu-
berculosis "doesn't mean that the immune system
didn't evolve to fight pathogens." I think she is
wrong on both issues, the reason for evolving

menstruation and the reason for evolving our im-

mune system.*

If we can see menstruation as a side effect of
the adaptations we have for producing large
brains, without its own special "menstruation
genes,” we should also be able to see a phenome-
non such as shock as something which is not bio-
logically so useful that we "evolved" it in the sense
of selecting for "shock genes." (Stumbling is a
consequence of walking, and the biological point
of interest is the walking, not the stumbling; any
interest that stumbling has, is as a "boundary" of
the ability to walk.)

My point is to suggest that shock is simply_a
negative thing, a failure of protective systems, a

biological screw-up resulting from the same sort of -

inadequacy of resources that produces “excitotox-
icity." The fact that shock-like features can be
seen in the hormonal effects of estrogen, and in
the "normal" process of aging, leads to the
thought that the body which can control the ef-
fects of estrogen should also be able to control
the shock reaction and the aging process, if given
the appropriate kinds of support. Estrogen cre-
ates a bias toward cellular "excitotoxicity," since it
promotes excitation while limiting energy produc-
tion. Our body controls ‘estrogen's effects by de-
“easing excitation while increasing efficient
energy production. / -

“The several éffective methods sf Livonting
death from shock can give us insight into this gen-
eral process of the failure of life, and so into the
nature of life itself.

The average biology professor is just about as
unsophisticated as the average television-viewer
about water in organisms--how it got there, why it
stays there, what it does. The typical biologist
maintains the conventional view of the cell by
changing the subject whenever a fact conflicts with
a doctrine. The history of the "cell membrane"
shows how this mental process has worked.

At first,(an oily coat was thought to account
for the different composition of the watery -
tions around cells, and inside cells. Then <>
brane pumps" were introduced to explain the
differences, because too many facts were inc
tent with the simple membrane idea.

were found and identified as the pump}.
turned out that pumps would require energy that

cells couldn't (and needn't). provide, and many
' ways were devised to explain the minimal energy

needed to maintain the composition of cell water.
But the  “pump-proteins"--calcium-ATP-ase,
sodium/potassium ATPase, etc.—are proteins that
really exist, though their functions are much more
interesting than "pumping." An important context
for thinking about these ATPases is that the con-
tractile protein of muscle (myosin) is a calcium-
dependent ATPase.

The habit of biochemists has been to think of
enzymes as the soluble proteins that could be ex-
tracted from cells in a watery solution, and to ig-
nore the insoluble residue, which contained the
ATPases. Now, much of the residue has been res-
urrected for biochemistry, under the name of
"membrane proteins." The "ghost" of the red
blood cell, after it has been shocked into losing its -
hemoglobin, is a popular lab preparation that bio-
chemists like to call a "membrane," though the
term is grossly misleading. Szent-Gyorgyi, Gilbert
Ling, and a few physically conscious biologists
spoke of these relatively insoluble proteins as
structural proteins.

In 1968 or '69, I had been reading the previous
50 years of research on celi physiology, and I saw
that for 20 years, Gilbert Ling had been almost
alone in offering a view of the cell that was physi-
cally possible. He had solved the problems of

ionic regulation in ways that physical chemists

could accept, but biologists were proceeding as if
his solutions to their problems didn't exist. I wrote’
to him, to see if I, as a newcomer to "science,"

was missing something. He said that I just didn't

understand what "science" was; it was a matter of
money, prestige, and influence, with little concern

for what was true.

It has been calculated that the substances
which are distributed unequally between cells and

——_F¥

| lnc surrounding fluid would require 15 times as
much energy as the cells can produce, if their dis-
tribution had to be maintained by pumps, but it has
also been demonstrated that cells can remain al-
most at equilibrium, when their energy production
is completely blocked by poisons.
maintains the ions and other solutes in their
unequal distribution between the inside and
outside of the cell, but it doesn't take energy to
do it.
lon-exchange resins, which also have the ability
to passively select certain ions while excluding
others. People who have examined the atom-by-
atom physics of how an ion-pump might work
have demonstrated the silliness of the idea. Jon-
exchange granules selectively bind certain ions that
reach them by passive diffusion, and similar near-

| From observing the retarded relaxation of
muscles in hypothyroidism, it is clear that low
energy makes relaxation difficult.

Szent-Gyorgyi showed that muscle in rigor}
mortis softened when placed in ATP solution.

The failing heart becomes stiff

Stretching a muscle increases its ATP.

increasing the concentration of sodium,
ATP, carbon dioxide, .... in the cell's environ-
ment increases its ATP content,

Filling the heart. stretches it, increasing its
ability to beat.

equilibrium processes can account for the ion gra-
dients maintained by ceils. The interesting differ-
ence in cells (compared to ion-exchange resins) is
that their physical near-equilibrium is closely bal-
anced with chemical processes, which are also
much closer to equilibrium than conventional
schemes imagine.

nderstanding the silliness of the "pump" idea
demystifies the membrane idea, and then a person
can begin to think about how cells really work.

_+ Stimulated, active cells expend energy. Be-

sides doing measurable work, such as contraction,
| they release a measurable amount of heat, at the
;moment of responding to _ stimulation.

Something -

This is why cells have been compared to. .

Surprisingly, stimulated nerves have been observed
to absorb heat immediately after releasing it, in a
"refrigerator-like” process that coincides with their
electrical repolarization. No one was able to ex-
plain this on the basis of membranes and pumps,

since the pumps should be releasing their heat af-

ter stimulation and during repolarization.

I have thought of this in terms of Kelvin's idea
of increased surface area leading to decreased tem-
perature. -
the way energy can be used in reestablishing the
cell's resting condition without releasing heat,
might be the idea that physical processes (the
change of protein conformation and water struc-
ture) are intimately integrated with chemical
equilibria.

Around 1970, a famous English researcher was
in Eugene lecturing about his theory that the fa-
mous "high energy bond of ATP" (14 kcal, I think
he said) could be used to explain muscle contrac-
tion. I had just read an old paper by one of my
professors, Sidney Bernhard, which showed that
its bond energy wasn't nearly so high. When I
asked Bernhard why "everyone talks about ATP's
high-energy bond," he just said "everyone doesn't."

When ATP breaks down it absorbs water, and ©

when it is synthesized, water is released. In a

water-free environment, the equilibrium favors the

in cells is lower than it is in ordinary water. Given
the right (anhydrous) environment, ATP will form
spontaneously. As the reactants form ATP and
give up water, energy is (at least theoretically) ab-
sorbed by the chemical bond. In the abstract, this
shows that the formation of ATP and the absorp-
tion of energy could be caused by factors that con-
trol the activity or availability of water. The
protein-ATP complex is one of those water-
regulating factors.

_ The abstract idea that ATP could be formed
spontaneously by a "relaxing" cell (recovering
from stimulation) goes against the idea that a "cell
is a motor and ATP is the fuel." Some people
have argued that the contraction occurs first, caus-
ing ATP to be split, rather than the reverse. Other
examples of enzyme activation support this view,
that the contraction or activation is a physical
process, like releasing a spring. In the contracted:

What we need, in order.to understand |_|

formation of ATP. The chemical activity of water

“J

on

or activated state, sodium is able to enter the cell
momentarily, and the presence of sodium seems to
allow the ATP to be reformed. These differences
might seem subtle, but they have made an all-
or-none difference in the minds of medical peo-
ple deciding on therapies and diets.

This picture of a cell as a loaded spring, or as
analogous to the ion exchanger in a water-
softener, is the sort of image I have in mind when J
speak of "charging the system."

Several researchers have demonstrated that in-
—travenous injections of ATP prevent death from
shock, that shock depletes the ATP of the cells,
- and that depleted cells absorb ATP much more
: readily than normal cells that don't lack it. All of

the biologists and biochemists (at Oregon's Insti-
tute for Molecular Biology) that I mentioned this
to said it was impossible, "because ATP is highly
ionized and can't cross the cell membrane."

Even when a general idea is clear and consis-
tent with the facts, if it opposes the dominant view
it needs some experiments that can hardly be un-
derstood without it.

i... ATP is increased as a result of in-
reasing blood sodium. An increase of only
about 15% in the blood sodium, for example,
caused the cells’ ATP to nearly double. [R. L.
Veech, et al., "Relationship of free cytoplasmic py-
rophosphate to liver glucose content and total py-
rophosphate to cytoplasmic phosphorylation
potential,” FEBS Lett. 117, K65-72, 1980.]
Sodium is an "extracellular" ion, one that binds
water to itseif so strongly that it is excluded from
the cell under normal conditions, in which the wa-
“fer is dominated by the cell's structural molecules.
It is only when the cell is stimulated or fatigued
—that it absorbs larger amounts of sodium, and the -
~fatigued cell also absorbs an excess of water. The
textbooks say "water follows sodium," but the
physical reality is that sodium also follows (free)
water, and that it tends to be excluded from the
~ water of cells. Increasing the sodium in the en-
vironment of a water-logged cell will tend to
dehydrate the cell.
This experiment, using sodium to increase
ATP (especially when we remember that ATP is
an effective treatment for shock) shows how

hypertonic sodium might rescue a shock victim, in-
creasing circulatory efficiency, helping to increase
blood volume, restoring the cell's electrical and
chemical resting state, and possibly regulating in-
tracellular pH. [G.. B. Haycock, "The influence of
sodium on growth in infancy," Pediatr. Nephrol.
7(6), 871-875, 1993.] The increasing blood vol-
ume is a "mechanical" effect that helps to make the
use of hypertonic sodium culturally more accept-

‘able, but it is really secondary to the other effects -

of sodium. The first water to be restored to the
serum is that contained in red blood cells and the
swollen endothelium. Capillaries and small blood
vessels that have been obstructed by swollen en-
dotheiial celis aliow free passage of the blood,
and the increased water lowers the blood's viscos-
ity, improving its ability to deliver oxygen and
glucose. Brain swelling is reduced, and conscious-
ness is restored. Glucose metabolism is also im-
proved under these conditions.

Sodium causes the ATPase to produce ATP,
rather than consuming it. (P.J. Garrahan and I.
M. Glynn, "The incorporation of inorganic phos-
phate into adenosine triphosphate by reversal of
the sodium pump," J. Physiol. 192, 237-256,
1967.; P. A. Dibrov, et al, "A study on Nat-
coupled oxidative phosphorylation: ATP forma-
tion supported by artificially imposed delta pNa
and delta pK in Vibrio alginolyticus cells," J. Bio-
energ. Biomembr. 21(3), 347-357, 1989.)

The membrane-pump theory says that the cell
consumes ATP to expel the sodium which enters,
and increased external sodium increases its hikeli-
hood of entering the cell, but in reality increased
external sodium causes more ATP to be produced.
The precise balance of ions seems to make the
difference between consumption or production
of ATP. [L. Plesner, et al., "[32P]ATP synthesis in
steady state from [32P]Pi and ADP by Nat/Kt-
ATPase from ox brain and pig kidney. Activation
by K+," Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1040(2),
167-174, 1990. ]

Remembering that the muscle protein is an
ATPase, there is a situation that I think is analo-
gous. When a muscle is stretched, it forms ATP, -
rather than consuming it. This could be the result
of a slight change in the physical state of the water
and small changes in chemical affinities produced

Sobsom wre ant — drama v¥¢ Fal gous daw coll A

by the changes in protein conformation. Before
this effect of stretch on ATP synthesis was directly
observed, Starling's law of the heart recognized
that the force of contraction increased with the ini-
tial length of the muscle fiber. Simply increasing
lood volume increases the effectiveness of the
heart contraction. Szent-Gyorgyi described a re-
‘lated process (the "staircase" phenomenon) as
"function building structure, structure producing
function."

—— Sodium is required for cells to absorb glucose
and amino acids. I have recommended salty foods
at bedtime to promote sleep, because of sodium's
Tecognized anti-adrenalin effect. There are some
complicated ways of thinking about its effect on
adrenalin, as there are for explaining its ther-
mogenic effect, but the simple fact that it is needed
for absorbing glucose can explain its ability to
lower adrenalin (since adrenalin rises when glu-
cose is needed) and to increase heat production.

In the fetus and the newbom baby, sodium
promotes growth... Progesterone, sodium and glu-
cose are often limiting factors in the growth of the
baby's brain; when they are deficient, cells die in-
stead of growing.

The fact is that sodium energizes. It helps to
remove calcium from the cell, to produce ATP,
and to promote absorption of glucose and amino
acids. The fear many physicians have of injecting
hypertonic sodium chloride is odd, in the light of
the knowledge that has accumulated in recent dec-
ades. Chloride isn't always the ideal anion, but
more elaborate preparation is needed for providing
the ideal ionic solution.

Carbon dioxide is powerfully involved in the
regulation of both sodium and calcium, as well as
in respiration and energy production.

It tends to relax both nerves and muscles. It is
apparently one of the essential factors in prevent-
ing edema. [For example, in the corneas M. V.
Riley, et al., 1995.]

ATP and CO2 both bind to hemoglobin, regu-
lating its affinity for oxygen. The way in which
they bind to this protein indicates that they will
bind to many other intracellular proteins, similarly
regulating the functions of those proteins.

The elimination of water from the environment
in which ATP is formed or decomposed favors its
formation, and in this environment ATP doesn't
contain its reputed "high energy bonds," but it still
has its strong affinity for binding to proteins. So-
dium binds water to itself, and it is this feature that
leads to its exclusion from the norma! cell. CO2,
when it is in water, especially with the carbonic
anhydrase enzymes, combines with water. As it is
formed in the mitochondria, this means that it will
carry water (as well as calctum and sodium) out
into the cytoplasm, and out of the cell.

In many situations, including brain hypoxia,
carbon dioxide is the decisive protective factor.

Low thyroid function involves reduced forma-
tion of carbon dioxide, and the body fluids don't
retain as much sodium as in normal individuals.
Both urine and sweat tend to contain abnormally
high sodium concentration in hypothyroidism. Be-
cause COQ2 is central to the regulation of pH, and
hydrogen ion excretion (acid urine) is one mecha-
nism involved in sodium retention, the CO2 defi-
ciency of hypothyroidism is probably closely
connected with the inability to retain adequate
sodium.

The body fluids are actually hypotonic in
hypothyroidism.

If hypertonic sodium energizes, then the low-
sodium hypoosmotic fluids of hypothyroidism
de-energize.

Low-thyroid cells are also unable to retain
magnesium efficiently, and a magnesium deficiency
prevents muscle relaxation, wasting energy. Ade-
quate sodium prevents urinary magnesium loss.

Hypothyroidism tends to cause hypoglycemia,
and the lack of glucose (even if it is because the
glucose in the blood can't be absorbed because of
insufficient sodium) causes elevation of adrenalin.
Hypertonic sodium given intravenously lowers the
amount of adrenalin in the blood, just as the thy-
roid hormone does.

Hypothyroidism also causes an imbalance be-
tween the antiestrogenic antishock hormones, pro- -
gesterone and pregnenolone, and _ proshock
estrogen. ~

The close integration of physical and chemical
processes when those processes are near

equilibrium is the fact or the principle that is lack-
ing in the doctrine that the cell is like a collection
of motors, fueled by ATP. If you can imagine a
Chevrolet that at times creates gasoline while ab-
sorbing heat, then the simile would be acceptable.
The inappropriateness of the mental image of a cell
with pumps and motors leads to the treatment of
shock with things that produce shock, of heart fail-
ure with things that produce heart failure, and of
aging with things that accelerate aging.

NOTE:  #*The estrogen dominance which is
needed to start the reproductive cycle, with cell prolif-
eration in the endometrium, breast, and pituitary, is not
otherwise useful to the organism, and is controlled and
opposed during pregnancy by a constantly rising pro-
duction of progesterone. The state of estrogen domi-
nance is essentially unstable. P. T. Ellison,
emphasizing the “energy hungry brains" of primates,
explains the need for the massive endometrial growth in
primates, and Strassman observes that endometrial re-
gression occurs in all mammals. These are important
points. Their failure to point out that estrogen has
many undesirable systemic effects very likely results
from the cultural context that has been created by the
estrogen-promoting pharmaceutical industry.

The group of processes that we call the immune
system is so deeply integrated with everything else in
the organism that to talk about "the reason for evolving
it" is as misleading as to talk about "the reason" for
evolving certain pigmentations—black feathers, for ex-
ample, are mechanically stronger than white ones, se-
lection of foxes for domesticability changes their fur
pigmentation and their voice, selection for egg laying
somehow produces suppression of feather pigmenta-
tion, etc., yet people like to talk about protective col-
oration, because an easy connection can be made
between that and genetic selection. Being an organism
is a problem whose solution may require inventive use
of internal and extemal resources; chromosomes are in-
temal resources, not clusters of traits.

The ideology that sees the organism as a sum of
traits, each with its gene, has been a failure in provid-
ing understanding about how an organism comes to
exist.

- REFERENCES

1. H. Chaudry, et al., "Evidence for enhanced up-
take of ATP by liver and kidney in hemorrhagic shock,"

Am. J. Physiol.: Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol.

'2(2), R83-R88, 1977. (During shock there is progres-

sive dephosphorylation of ATP, ADP, AMP, and cre-
atine © phosphate. "the beneficial effect of
ATP-MgCi2 in shock could be due to provision of en-
ergy directly to tissue in which ATP levels were
lowered.")

G. P. Sharma and B. Eitseman, "Protective effects
of ATP in experimental hemorrhagic shock,” Surgery
59, 66-74, 1996.

S. M. Talaat, et al., "Effects of adenosine tnphos-
phate administration im irreversible hemorrhagic
shock," Surgery 55, 813-819, 1964.

G. R. Bartlett, The Human Red Cell in Virro,
pages 5-29, Greenwalt and Jamieson, eds., Grune and
Stratton, London, 1974. (After cold storage, red cells
lose much of their ATP and are likely to die soon after

transfusion, They can be incubated in nucleosides to

increase their ATP and improve their survival.)

P. M. Grinwald, "Positive feedback in the living
process: The role of ATP im ischaemic cell death,”
Med. Hypotheses 3(1), 138-143, 1977. (Depletion of
ATP leads to increased entry of calcium into cells
which uncouples phosphorylation, and further lowers
ATP.)

M. Koike, et al., “Gluconeogenesis stimulated by
extracellular ATP is.triggered by the initial increase in
the intracellular Ca2+ concentration of the periphery of
hepatocytes," Biochem. J. 283(Pt 1), 265-272, 1992.
("Extracellular ATP stimulated glucose synthesis."
"The rate of the initial fast component did not depend
on the presence or absence of extracellular Ca2+....")

K. D. Keef, et al., "Purinergic relaxation and hy-
perpolarization m guinea pig and rabbit coronary ar-
tery: Role of the endothelium," J. Pharmacol. Exp.
Ther. 260(2), 592-600, 1992.

A. S. Piper and M. Hollingsworth, "ATP and
beta,gamma-methylene ATP produce relaxation of
guinea-pig isolated trachealis muscle via actions at P1
purinoceptors," Eur. J. Pharmacol. 307(2),183-189,
1996,

B. Boland, et al., "ATP induced-relaxation in the
mouse bladder smooth muscle," Br. J. Pharmacol.
108(3), 749-753, 1993. )

Y. Sakai-Tomita, et al., "Na(+)-coupled ATP syn-
thesis in a mutant of Vibrio parahaemolyticus lacking
H(+)-translocation ATPase activity," Biochem. Bio-
phys. Res. Commun. 179(1), 224-228, 1991.

VY. P. Skulachev, “Membrane-linked energy trans-
ductions. Bioenergetic functions of sodium: H+ is not

|

/
unique as a coupling ion,” Eur. J. Biochem. 151(2),
199-208, 1985.

I. T. Velasco, et al., "Hyperosmotic NaCl and se-
vere hemorrhagic shock,": Am. J. Physiol. 239(5),
H664-673, 1980. ("...hyperosmotic NaCl infusions in-
crease the dynamic efficiency of the circulatory system,
enabling it to adequately handle oxygen supply and me-
tabolite clearance, despite a critical reduction of blood
volume.")

M. Rocha e Silva, et al., "Hyperosmotic sodium
salts reverse severe hemorrhagic shock: Other solutes
do not,” Am, J. Physiol. 253(4 Pt 2), H751-762, 1987.

G. Ronning, et al, "Intraosseous infusion of a small
volume of hyperosmotic fluid increases mean arterial
pressure and lessens the catecholamine response in pigs
with haemorrhagic shock," Eur. J. Surg. 161(10),
715-720, 1995.

G. Ronning, et al., "Effect of haemorrhagic shock
and imtraosseous resuscitation on plasma and urine
catecholamine concentrations and unnary clearance in
pigs," Eur. J. Surg. 161(6), 387-394, 1995. ("Two
hours after the whole blood infusion the catecholamine
concentrations of the treated animals were at baseline
values, significantly lower than those of the controls.")

G. Ronning, et al., "Influence of intra-osseous infu-°

sion of a small volume of hyperosmotic fluid on beta-
adrenergic function in circulating lymphocytes from
bled pigs," Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. 55(6), 505-511,
1995. (Hyperosmotic treatment attenuated the plasma
catecholamine release.)

P. F. Moon, "Fluid compartments in hemorthaged
rats after hyperosmotic crystalloid and hyperoncotic
colloid resuscitation," Am J. Physiol. 270(1 Pt 2),
F1-8, 1996.

E.H. Luh, et al., "The effects of hyperosmolarity on
the viability and function of endothelial cells," J. Surg.
Res. 60(1), 1227128, 1996:  ("...exposure to anoxia
may induce tolerance of endothelial cells to hyperos-
motic media.")

M. C. Mazzoni, et al., "Capillary narrowing in
hemorthagic shock is rectified by hyperosmotic saline-
dextran reinfusion," Circ. Shock 31(4), 4-7-418, 1990.

J. M. Pascual, et al., "Resuscitation of intraopera-
tive hypovolemia: A comparison of normal saline and
hyperosmotic/hyperoncotic solutions in swine," Crit.
Care. Med. 20(2), 200-210, 1992.

M. C. Mazzoni, et al., “Dynamic fluid redistribu-
tion in hyperosmotic resuscitation of hypovolemic hem-
orthage," Am. J. Physiol. 255(3 Pt 2), H629-637,
1988. ("...immediately after hyperosmotic infusion, wa-
ter shifts into the plasma first from red blood cells and

endothelium and then from the interstitium and ‘tissue
cells."

_K. Messmer and U. Kreimeier, "Microcirculatory

therapy in shock," Resuscitation 18(Suppl.), $51-61,
1989, ("...restoration of vasomotion and reopening of
narrowed capillaries can be obtamed by small volume
resuscitation using hyperosmotic/hyperoncotic salt dex-
tran solution.")

F. Christ, et al., “Hyperosmotic-hyperoncotic solu-
tions during abdominal aortic aneurysm resection,"
Acta Anaesthesiol. Scand. 41(1 Pt 1), 62-70, 1997.
("We suggest that HHS opens new perspectives in pe-
nioperative fluid management of both elective and emer-
gency AAA repair, since hemodynamic parameters are
improved and the overall fluid balance is less positive,
thus decreasing the likelthood of edema formation.")

J. de Felippe, Jr., et al., “Treatment of refractory
hypovolaemic shock by 7.5% sodium chloride injec-
tions," Lancet 2(8202), 1002-1004, 1980. (The im-
mediate effects of the NaCl injections were a moderate
rise in arterial pressure, the resumption of urine flow,
and recovery of consciousness."

C. Veigel, et al., "The influence of ionic strength
upon relaxation from rigor mduced by flash photolysis
of caged-ATP in skinned murine skeletal muscle fi-
bres," Pflugers Arch. 430(6), 994-1003, 1995.

M. V. Riley, et al., "The roles of bicarbonate and
CQ2 in transendothelial fluid movement and control of
comeal thickness," Invest. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci. 36(1),
103-112, 1995.

E. C. Wimell, et al., “Will a critical level of
hyperventilation-induced hypocapnia always induce an
absence seizure?" Epilepsia 37(5), 459-462, 1996.
("...a reduction in number of spike and wave bursts and
total seconds of spike and wave was noted in children
breathing supplemental CO2....Supplemental O2 had
no effect.")

V. D. Solomatina, "Peculiarities of phosphoric
compound metabolism in liver mitochondria of carp
adapted to higher concentration of CO2 im water,” Ukr.
Biokhim. Zh. 52(2), 183-186, 1980. ("...during adap-
tation to the CO2 higher level in the medium the
amount of ATP in fishes undergoes the most significant
changes." "When fishes were for 24 hours under condi-
tions of the 0.4mM CQ2 concentration, the ATP con-
tent in the carp liver mitochondria surpasses the control
level....")

S. F. Badylak and C. F. Babbs, "The effect of car-
bon dioxide, lidoflazine and deferoxamine upon long
term survival foliowing cardiorespuratory arrest in
rats," Resuscitation 13(3), 165-173, 1986.

ve
