este T hybato ¢ frost Dur €sfy sovras V
a ee ea

Ray Peat's Newsletter

Copyright 1998 Raymond Peat PO Box 5764, Eugene, OR 97'405

Prostate Cancer

It was noticed several decades ago that estro-
gen causes the prostate gland to enlarge in experi-
mental animals, but by then an oversimplified
view of the sex hormones was already well estab-
lished, that ied people to say that “estrogen causes
the female organs to grow, and _ testosterone
causes the male organs to grow." Logically
extending this misfAken idea led many of the same
people to suppose that the "hormones of one sex
would inhibit the growth of the reproductive
organs of the other sex."

When a friend of mine was told he had
prostate cancer, though he had had no symptoms,
and should receive large doses of estrogen, |
reviewed the literature,.to see whether his doctor
might have seen something I had neglected. Since
that time, I have found it necessary to use quota-
tion marks around the phrases "medical research"
and "medical science,” because there is a certain
kind of "research" performed within the medical
profession which is peculiar to that profession.

- When I read through the studies cited by the
current articles as the basis for using estrogen to
treat prostate cancer, | saw that the decisive
"research" had consisted of mailing a question-
naire to physicians asking them if they thought it
was reasonable to administer estrogen to these
patients on the basis of its opposition to testoster-
one? which was considered to be responsible for
the growth of the prostate gland. Many physicians
answered the questionnaire affirmatively.

If the questioner’s purpose was to determine
his legal status in using a treatment, his»research
method was appropriate, to see whether the treat-.
ment seemed reasonable to others in the profes-
sion. Legally, a physician is safe if he can count
on others to testify that his practice is standard.
Unfortunately, for generations his study of the

May, 1998

opinions of his peers became the vevidencd” of
the val ue of the estrogen treatment. Phrases such

as "it is indicated," "treatment of choice,” and~

“stanclard practice” are used in medicine, as part
of the pseudo-scientific mystique of the profes-
sion. Physicans who attempt to base their
practice on metheds that have a sound scientific
basis are likely to find that they are violating the
nomms of their profession.

Miore than 25 years ago, when I started point-
ing out that deliberate misrepresentation had been
involved in the continued designation of estrogen
as “the female hormone,” used as a basis for
"hormene replacement therapies," I saw that it
was hard for people to sustain a critical attitude

o> Ores

"simultaneous treatment of intact...rats
with ‘testosterone and estradiol 17beta for 16
weeks consistenly induced a putative precancer-—
ous lesion, termed dysplasia, in the dorsolateral
‘prostate of all animals. Since treatment of rats
with androgen alone did not elicit the same
response, we concluded that estrogen played a
| critical role in the genesis of this proliferative
lesion." ~~  Shuk-mei Ho and M. Yu, in "Selec--
tive increase in type I estrogen-binding sites in the
dysplastic ‘dorsolateral prostates of Noble rats,"
Cancer Research 53, 528-532,1993,

toward language. Language is prior to judgment,
law, science, reason. Those who define the terms
set the rules.

By the mid-1980s, some studies had shown
that estrogen treatment didn't prolong the survival
of prostate cancer patients at all, but it was argued
that the patients who received estrogen were
happier than those who didn't.

Apoarently, many physicians who were
experts in conventional cancer treatment hadn't
been impressed by the happiness of their patients

NK

(™m pie |xoat estes TF, JOY A Pte wef- vespo L- ;

1 tk Pryor le far ted a0 Av ef b Cl tact for ect amok 24 23070 2z

who were receiving estrogen, because a survey at
a conference of physicians found that many of
them would choose to have no treatment if they
learned they had prostate cancer. Ana‘ more
recently, there have been recommendatiors that
older patients shouldn't be treated aggressively,
because their cancers are usually so slow growing
that they are likely to die of something: else
related to old age.

In spite of the articles I showed my frienc!, and
my warning that estrogen can cause strokes and
heart attacks, he decided to take the estrogen
treatment. Within a few days he began suffe1 ing
from asthma and disturbed sleep. Then he had a
series of strokes and died. t

Since it was known that estrogen treatment
was dangerous for men, and that it increzises
blood clotting and vascular spasms, there hai to
be some overriding belief that led to its general
use in treating prostate cancer. That belief seems
testosterone, the male hormone, which is respon-
sible for the growth--and therefore for the
cancerization—of the prostate gland.” Everything
is wrong with that sentence, but vou can find

every part of the belief present and functioning in
the medical lueraaare.—Tust to give some context
to the association of growth and cancerization, I
should mention that Otto Warburg observed that
all of the carcinogenic factors he studied caused
tissue atrophy before cancer appeared. Another
important contextual point is that every hormone
does many things, and every endocrine gland
produces muitiple hormones. \

Since the time of Brown-Sequard.and Eugen
Steinach, it has been accepted that declining
testicular function is a common feature of aging,
and testosterone was probably the first hormone
that was clearly found to decrease consistently
with aging. (Vermeulen, et al., 1972, 1979.)

It has seemed odd to many people that
enlargement of the prostate should occur mainly
in older men, if testosterone is the hormone that
causes its growth, and estrogen is antagonistic to
its growth. The nature of the growth of the old
man's prostate is very different from its natural
growth in youth.

It was also recognized decades ago that estro-
gen rises in men during old age (Pirke and Doerr,
1975), as it rises in stress, disease, malnutrition,
and hypothyroidism (which are also associated
with old age). Estrogen is produced in fat (Siiteri,

-and MacDonald, 1973, Vermeulen, 1976) which

tends to increase with age, when thyroid and
progesterone are deficient. The conversion of
testosterone to estrogen occurs in the testicle
itself, but this conversion 1s also mhibited by the
favorable hormonal environment of youth. The
active thyroid hormone, Ts, declines with aging,
and this necessanly lowers production of pregne-
nolone and progesterone. Increasingly, in both
sexes, It appears that DHEA may rise during
stress as a result of a deficiency of thyroid,
progesterone, and pregnenolone.

In 1786, John Hunter reported that castration
causes a decrease in the size of the prostate gland,
and by the end of the 19th century castration was
being advocated for treating enlargement of the
prostate. In aging men, the prostate gland (both
central and Seripheral Zones) atrophies, and it is

. . . eee
within the atrophic gland that cancer cells can.be

found. Nodular, noncancerous enlargement may -

occur, with or without cancer. In 1935, an
autopsy study showed carcinoma in the prostates
of 30% of men by the age of 50. Proliferation of
ductal and epithelial tissue is closely associated
with prostate cancer, a situation similar to that of
the cancerous or precancerous breast. (Simpson,
et al., 1982; Wellings, et al., 1975; Jensen, et al.,
1976.) The high probability of "epitheliosis" in
association with cancer was seen in women in
their early 40s, and in women over 60. (Simpson,
et al.) (Epitheliosis just refers to an exaggerated
proliferation of epithelial cells, the cells covering
all surfaces, including the lining of glands, and
things as simple as irritation and vitamin A
deficiency can cause these cells to proliferate.) In
the breast, the proliferative epitheliosis is clearly
caused by estrogenic stimulation. The _antago-
nism between estrogen and vitamin A in control-
ling epithelial proliferation (and possibly other
cell types: Boettger-Tong and Stancel, 1995) is
clear wherever it has been tested; vitamin A
restrains epithelial proliferation. | (Wherever
estrogen is a factor in the development of

Chuo ll Je ratio est fandiesty q

abnormal tissue, vitamin A supplementation
would seem beneficial.)

In aging women and men, as the breasts and
prostate atrophy, their estrogen/antiestrogen ratio
increases.

In men with prostate _cancer, the fluid secreted
by the prostate contains significantly more _estra-
diol than the fluid from men without cancer
(Rose, et al., 1984). This 1s analogous to observa-
tions made in women with breast cancer.

The pituitary hormones have diverse functons,
including effects on epithelial tissues, other than
their "classical" functions. Growth hormone,
ACTH (Lostroh and Li, 1957), and ACTH with
prolactin (Tullner, 1963) stimulate prostate
growth. Prolactin--which 1s increased by
estrogen--stimulates growth of the rat's lateral
prostate (Holland and Lee, 1980), and stimulates
the growth of human prostate epithelial cells i
vitro (Syms, et al., 1985). LH (luteinizing
hormone) increases when progesterone or testos-
terone is deficient, and growth hormone and
prolactin (which are closely associated mn evolu-
tion) both imcrease under a variety of stressful
situations, and with estrogenic stimulation.
Prostate cancer patients who had higher levels
of LH and Jower testosterone died most quickly.
(Harper, et al., 1984.) Also, a high ratio of
testosterone to estradiol or of testosterone to
prolactin corresponded to better survival
(Rannikko, et al, 1981.) Considered
separately, patients with higher testosterone
levels had a better prognosis than those with
lower levels, and patients with lower growth
hormone levels did better than those with
higher growth hormone levels. (Wilson, et al.,
1985.) Has anyone ever tried testosterone therapy
for prostate cancer? Or, more practically, a gener-
alized antiestrogenic therapy, using thyroid,
progesterone, and pregnenolone? Other drugs
(naloxone, bromocriptine, gonadotropin-releasing
hormone agonists, and anti-growth hormone
druges, e.g.) are available to regulate the pituitary
hormones, and might be useful therapeutically or
preventively. (See Blaakaer, et al., 1995.)
Biskind and Biskind’s work (1944) with ovanan
tumors might be relevant to both testicular and
prostate cancer.

Sh + frolactu<t Ack#E sty

ule fe RO S348 e Oe le
TC cut T hr ctresi wf cStro. Sy tT Ves 2 astra

Abnormal patterns of pituitary hormones
reflect stress and hormonal imbalance, but they
are also directly involved in widespread changes
in tissue content of glycoproteins. The prostate is
specialized to secrete large amounts of mucin.
The erdocrine physiology of prostate mucin
secretion is poorly understood, but it is likely that
there are interactions between growth-regulatory
and secretion-regulatory systems.

In recent years, prostate cancer has been one
of the: fastest increasing kinds of cancer, and it
isn't apparent that increased treatment has had an
effect in lowering the death rate. The postwar
baby-boom (following the baby-bust of the great
depression) created an abnormal age-structure of
the population, that has been used to argue that
the war against cancer is being won. Increasing
environmental estrogens are known to cause
many reproductive abnormalities, and their
contnbution to prostate cancer would get more
attention if estrogen’s role in prostate disease were
better known. Environmental estrogens are
clearly responsible for genital deformities and
sterility in many species of wild animals, but
when the causal link is made between estrogens
and human abnormalities, the estrogen industry
sends its shills in to create controversy and confu-
sion. Even the effects of estrogens in sewage,
known for decades, are treated as State Secrets:
"There had been reports of hermaphroditic fishes
In one or two rivers, and government investigators
had been studying them since the late 1970s. But
no one had Deen aware of the work because it
was classifiec."' (Lutz, 1996.)

Testicula: cancer is easy to diagnose, and its \
incidence has clearly increased (100% in white
men, 200% in black men) since 1950.
Undescended testicles, urethral abnormalities,
etc., similar to those seen in DES sons and in wild
animals, have also increased. So the tremendous
increase in the death rate from prostate cancer
during the same time has a meaningful context.

Although the animal studies showed that
estrogen treatment promotes enlargement of the
prostate, it was possible to suppose that the
human ‘prostate's growth might be stimulated only
by testosterone, until tests were done in.vitro to

foster?

gu Tesfus ile Ces Ba,

LW

ne lmvle pas Jas =

determine the effects of hormones. on cell

division.

; In human prostate slices, several hormones
-~ (including insulin, and probably prolactin) stimu-
lated cell division; testosterone did not,, under
these experimental conditions. (McKeehan, et al.,
1984.) Contrary to the stereotyped ideas, there are
suggestions that supplementary androgens could
control prostate cancer (Umekita, et al., 1996),
and that antagonists to prolactin and estrogen
might be appropriately used in hormonal therapy
(for example, Wennbo, et al., 1997; Lane, et: al.,
1997).

By the age of 50, men often show an excess of
both prolactin and estrogen, and a deficiency of
thyroid and testosterone. This is the age at which
enlargement of the prostate often becomes
noticeable.

Estrogen's role in prostate growth and cancen-
zation is clear: "..Simultaneous treatment of
intact...rats with testosterone and estradiol-] 7beta
for 16 weeks consistenly induced a pvitative
precancerous lesion, termed dysplasia, in the
dorsolateral prostate of all animals. Since. treat-
ment of rats with androgen alone did not elicit the
same response, we concluded that estrogen. played
a critical role in the genesis of this proliferative
lesion." (Ho and Yu.)

Progesterone and pregnenolone also decline in
aging men. Several studies using synthetic
progestins have shown that they effectively shrink
the hypertrophic prostate, and the saw palmetto
remedy for prostate enlargement has been
"reported to coniain pregnenolone, cr something
similar to it. These materials might be expected
to reduce conversion of testosterone or other
ndrogens to estrogen.

The prostaglandins were discovered in
prostatic fluid, where they occur in significant
concentrations. They are so deeply involved with
the development of cancers of all sorts that aspirin
and other prostaglandin inhibitors should be
onsidered as a basic part of cancer therapy. The
prostaglandins have local and systemic effects
that promote cancer growth. ("The prostaglandins
and related eicosanoids synthesized from polyun-
saturated fatty acid precursors have been ‘impli-
cated as modulators of tumor metastasis. host

roius = 1-40 y, Peg, T estw
Gt, thks pmsoliaty AbG at wor

tf teto 2240 daw Test,
PL cefilat. OH Lppt & Ther, (PE, A, Jteime Cet} btm

immunoregulation, tumor promotion, and cell
proliferation." Hubbard, et al., 1988.)

Estrogens cause elevation of free fatty acids,
and there are many interactions between the
unsaturated fatty acids and estrogen, including
their metabolism to prostaglandins, and their
peroxidation. Estrogen's roles as free-radical
promoter, DNA toxin, carcinogen, tumor promo-
tor, modifier of tissue growth factors, anti-thymic
hormone, etc., as well as its local effects on the
prostate gland, have to be kept in mind. Most of
the interest in studying estrogen's contributions to
prostate cancer relates to the existence of estrogen
receptors in various parts of the prostate. While:
ihat is interesting, it tends to distract attention
from the fact that many of estrogen's most impor-
tant actions don't involve the "receptors." A
direct excitatory action on prostate cells, and
indirect actions by way of the pituitary, pancreas,
thyroid, adrenal, fatty acids, prostaglandins, hista-
mine and circulation are probably essential parts
of the cancerization process.

The unsaturated fatty acids, but not the
saturated fatty acids, free estrogen from the serum
proteins that bind it, and increase its availability
and activity in tissue cells.

Thyroid supplementation, adequate animal
protein, trace minerals, and vitamin A are the first
things to consider in the prevention of prostate
hypertrophy and cancer. Nutritional and
endocrine support can be combined with rational
anticancer treatments, since there is really no
sharp line between different approaches that are
aimed at achieving endocrine and immunological
balance, without harming anything.

Avoiding tissue atrophy is very closely related
to promoting healthy regeneration. These
processes require efficient energy production, and
an appropriate balance between stimulation and
resources. Growth hormone is sometimes recom-
mend to correct tissue atrophy, but the evidence
seems reasonably clear that it is a factor in the
promotion of tumefaction of the prostate. The
only study I have seen suggesting that it might be
beneficial in prostatic cancer was a 14 day experi-
ment done in female rats. Numerous publications
suggest that blocking growth hormone is

7 Sfaeen

cellblaje. When INS AA: Poke fey “”

beneficial in treating prostate cancer; in future
newsletters I will be discussing the evidence that
growth hormone, like estrogen, cortisol, and.

unsaturated fats, tends _to_promote degenerative

changes of aging.

REFERENCES

M.C. Audy, et al., "17beta-Estradiol stimulates a rapid Ca2+
influx in LNCaP human prostate cancer cells,” Eur. J.
Endocrionol. 135, 367-373, 1996.

M. S. Biskind and G. S. Biskind, "Development of tumors in
the rat ovary after transplantation into the spleen," Proc. Soc. Exp.
Biol Med. 55,.176-179, 1944.

J. Blaakaer, et al., “Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist
Suppression of ovarian tumorigenesis in mice of the W/W"
genotype,” Biol of Reprod. 55, 775-779, 1995. ,

Clinton, SK Mulloy AL, Li SP, Mangian HJ, Visek WJ, J Nutr
1997 Feb;127(2):225-237 "Dietary fat and protein intake differ in
modulation of prostate tumor growth, prolactin secretion and
metabolism, and prostate gland prolactin binding capacity in rats."

J. R. Drago, "The induction of Nb rat prostatic carcinomas,"
Anticancer Res. 4, 255-256, 1984.

J. Geller, et al., "The effect of cyproterone acetate on adenocar-
cinoma of the prostate," Surg. Gynec. Obst. 127, 748-758, 1968.

J. Geller, J. Fishman, and T. L. Cantor, "Effect of cyproterone
acetate on clinical, endacrine and pathological features of benign
prostatic hypertrophy," J. Steroid Biochemistry 6, 837-843, 1975.

Ho, Shuk-mei, and M. Yu, “Selective merease in type U
estrogen-binding sites in the dysplastic dorsolateral prostates of
Noble rats,". Cancer Research 53, 528-532, 1993. ".. simultaneous
treatment of intact...rats with testosterone and estradiol-17beta for
16 weeks consistenly induced a putative precancerous lesion, termed
dysplasia, m the dorsolateral prostate of all animals.- Since treat-
ment of rats with androgen alone did not elicit the same response,
we concluded that estrogen played a critical role in the genesis of
this proliferative lesion.”

M. E. Harper, et al., "Carcinoma of the prostate: relationship of
pretreatment hormone levels to survival" Eur. J. Cancer Clin.
Oncol. 20, 477-482, 1984.

J. M. Holland and C. Lee, "Effects of pituitary grafts on testos-
terone stimulated prowth of rat prostate," Biol. Reprod. 22,
351-355, 1980.

W. C. Hubbard, et al., "Profiles of prostaglandin biosynthesis
in sixteen established cell lines derived from human lung, colon,
prostate, and ovarian tumors," Cancer Research 48, 4770-4775,
1988. "The prostaglandins and related eicosanoids synthesized
from polyunsaturated fatty acid precursors have been implicated as
modulators of tumor metastasis, host immunoregulation, tumor
promotion, and cell proliferation.”

Izes JK, Zinman LN, Larsen CR, Urology 1996
May;47(5):756-759 "Regression of large pelvic desmoid tumor by
tamoxifen and sulindac," “A 54-year-old man was evaluated for
symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction. Evaluation revealed a 10 by
9.8-cm tumor composed of bland, fibroblastic, poorly cellular
taaterial adjacent to the prostate. Administration of a course of

‘ antiestrogen (tamoxifen) and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
agent (sulindac) resulted in prompt relief of symptoms and a
slow decrease in the size of the tumor as measured by computed
tomography. After 54 months of therapy, the tumor was undetect-
able clinically and dramatically reduced in size as seen on computed

tomography. Data on the natural history of desmoid tumors and the
efficacy of various therapeutic strategies are reviewed.

Jungwirth A, Schally AV, Pinski J, Halmos G, Groot K,
Armatis P, ‘Vadillo-Buenfil M., Br J Cancer 1997;75(11):1585-
1592, "Inhibition of in vivo proliferation of androgen-independent
prostate cancers by an antagonist of growth hormone-releasing
hormone.”

Kroes R; Teppema JS Development and restitution of
squamous metaplasia in the calf prostate after a single estrogen
treatment. An electron microscopic study. Mol Pathol, 1972 Jun,
16:3, 286-301,

Lane KE, Leav I, Ziar J, Bridges RS, Rand WM, Ho $M,
Carcinogenesis 1997 Aug;18(8):1505-1510 “Suppression of
testosterone and estradiol-17beta-induced dysplasia in the dorso-
lateral prostate of Noble rats by bromocriptine.” "We, and others,
have previously described the histological changes that occur in the
prostate gland of intact Noble (NBL) rats following prolonged
hormonal treatment. Dysplasia, a pre-neoplastic lesion, develops
specifically in the dorsolateral prostates (DLPs} of NBL rats treated
for 16 weeks with a combined regimen of testosterone (T) and
estradiol-17beta (E2) (T + E2-treated rats). Concurrent with DLP
dysplasia induction, the dual hormone regimen also elicits
byperprolactinemia, in addition to an elevation of nuclear type
II estrozen binding sites (type Il EBS), no alteration in estro-
gen receptors (ER), and marked epithelial cell proliferation in
the dysplastic foci. The aim of this study was to investigate
whether the dual hormone action is mediated via E2-induced hyper-
prolactinemia. Bromocriptine (Br), at a dose of 4 mg/kg body wt
per day, was used to suppress pituitary prolactin (PRL) release.
Serum PRE levels were lowered from values of 341 +/- 50 ng/ml in
T + E2-treated rats to 32 +/- 10 ng/ml in Br co-treated animals. The ~
latter values were comparable to those in untreated control rats. In
addition, Br co-treatment effectively inhibited the evolution of
dysplasia (six out of eight rats) and the often associated inflam-
mation (five out of eight rats) in most animals. In contrast, Br
co-treatment did not suppress the T + E2-induced type IT EBS
elevation nor alter ER levels in the DLPs of these rats, when
compared with T + E2-treated rats. These data extend the many
previous studies: that have detailed marked influences of PRL on
rat prostatic functions. However, the current study is the first
to implicate PRL in prostatic dysplasia induction in vivo."

I. Leav, et al., "Biopotentiality of response to sex homnones by
the prostate of castrated or hypophysectomized dogs: Direct effects
of estrogen," Am. J: Pathol., 93, 69-92, 1978.

H. C. Levine, et al., "Effects of the addition of estrogen to
medical castration on prostatic size, symptoms, histology and serum
Prostate specific antigen in 4 men with benign prostatic
bypertrophy, "J. Urol. 146, 790-93, 1991.

Diana Lutz, The Sciences, January/February 1996,

W. L. McF-eehan, et al., "Direct mitogenic effects of insulin,
epidermal grovith factor, glucocorticoid, cholera toxin, unknown
pituitary factors and possibly prolactin, but not androgen, on
normal rat frostate epithelial cells in serum-free, primary cell
culture," Cancer Res. 44(5), 1998-2010, 1984.

Nevalainen MT, Valve EM, Ingleton PM, Nurmi M, Martika-
inen PM, Harkonen PL, J Clin Invest 1997 Feb 15;99(4):618-627
"Prolactin end prolactin receptors are expressed and functioning in
human prostate.” "The highest density of prolactin receptors was
detected in the secretory epithelial cells by immunohistochemistry.
Finally, we report that prolactin is locally produced in human
prostate epithelium, as evidenced by marked prolactin immunoreac-
tivity in a significant portion of prostate epithelial cells, with paral-
lel expresssion of prolactin mRNA in human prostate. Collectively,

these data provide significant support for the existence of an
autocrine/paracrine loop of prolactin in the human prostate and may
shed new light on the involvement of prolactin in the etiology and
progression of neoplastic growth of the prostate.”

A. J. Lostroh and C. H. Li, "Stimulation of the sex accessories
of hypophysectomised male rat by non-gonadotrophin hormones of
the pituitary gland," Acta endocr. Copenh. 25, I-16, 1957.

F. B. Merk, et al., "Multiple phenotypes of prostatic vlandular
cells in castrated dogs after individual or combined treatment with
androgen and estrogen,” Lab. Invest. 54, 42-46, 1986.

Pirke, K.M. and P. Doerr, "Age related changes in free: plasma
testosterone, dihydrotesterone, and oestradiol," Acta endocr.
Copenh. 89, 171-178, 1975

S. Rannikko, et al., "Hormonal patterns in prostatic cancer 1.
Correlation with local extent of tumour, presence of metastasis and
grade of differentiation,” Acta endocr. Copenh. 98, 625-633, 1981.

P. H. Rolland, et al., "Prostaglandins in human breast caricer:
Evidence suggesting that an elevated prostaglandin production is a
marker of metastatic potential for necplastic cells,” J. Natl. Cancer
Inst. 64, 1061-1070, 1980.

D. P. Rose, et al., "Hormone levels in prostatic Muid from
healthy Finns and prostate cancer patients," Eur. J. Cancer clin.
Oncol. 20, 1317-1319, 1984.

L. M. Schuman, et al., “Epidemiologic study of prostatic
cancer: Preliminary report," Cancer Treat. Rep. 61, 181-186, 1977.

Sitteri, P.K. and P. C, MacDonald, "Role of extraglandular
estrogen in human endocrinology,” In Handbook of Physiology,
section 7, Endocrinology Vol Il (Eds. $. R. Geiger, et al.) pp.
615-629, Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore.

H. W. Simpson, et al., "Bimodal age-frequency distribution of
epitheliosis in cancer mastectomies, Cancer 50, 2417-2422, 1982;
S. R. Wellings, et al., "Atlas of subgross pathology of the human
breast with special reference to possible precancerous le:ions," J.
Nat. Cancer Inst. 55, 231-273, 1975; H. M. Jensen, et al., "Preneo-
plastic lesions in the human breast," Science, N.Y. 191,
295-297,1976.

Sugimura Y, Sakurai M, Hayashi N, Yamashita A, Kawamura
J., Prostate 1994;24(1):24-32 “Age-related changes of the prostate
gland in the senescence-accelerated mouse." "Wet weight and
numbers of ductal tips in ventral and dorsolateral prostate glands in
senescence accelerated-prone (SA-P) mice were significantly
smaller than those of senescence accelerated-resistar:t (SA-R) mice,
although the changes of patterns of gross ductal morphology were
virtually identical in these groups. High incidence of stromal
hyperplasia with fibrosis and inflammation was observed..."
“These data suggest that the aging process occur: heterogeneously
within the prostate gland, and that SA-P mice may be an important
model for the study of age-related changes in the prostate gland."

W. W. Tullner, "Hormonal factors in the adyenal-dependent
growth of the rat ventral prostate," Nat. Cancer Inst. ;fionograph 12,
214-223, 1963.

Umekita Y, Hiipakka RA, Kokontis JM, Liao S, Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S$ A 1996 Oct 15;93(21):11802-11807 “Human
prostate tumor growth in athymic mice: inhibition by ancrogens and
stimulation by finasteride," "When the human prostate ¢ancer cell
line, LNCaP 104-S, the growth of which is stimulated ky physio-
logical levels of androgen, is cultured in androgen-depleted medium
for > 100 passages, the cells, now called LNCaP 104-R2, are prolif-
eratively repressed by low concentrations of androgens. LNCaP
104-R2 cells formed tumors in castrated male athymic nude mice.
Testosterone propionate (TP) treatment prevented ,; LNCaP
104-R2 tumor growth and caused regression of established
tumors in these mice. Such a tumor-suppressive effect was not

observed with tumors derived from LNCaP 104-5 cells or androgen
receptor-negative human prostate cancer PC-3 cells. 5 alpha-
Dihydrotestosterone, but not 5 beta-dihydrotesto- sterone, 17
beta-estradiol, or medroxyprogesterone acetate, also inhibited
LNCaP 104-R2 tumor growth. Removal of TP or implantation of
finasteride, a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, in nude mice bearing TP
implants resulted in the regrowth of LNCaP 104-R2 tumors. Within
1 week after TP implantation, LNCaP 104-R2 tumors exhibited
massive necrosis with severe hemorrhage. Three weeks later, these
tumors showed fibrosis with infiltration of chronic inflammatory
cells and scattered carcinoma cells exhibiting degeneration. TP
treatment of mice with LNCaP 104-R2 tumors reduced nimor
androgen receptor and c-myc mRNA levels but increased prostate-
specific antigen in serum- and prostate-specific antigen mRNA in
tumors. Although androgen ablation bas been the standard
treatment for metastatic prostate cancer for > 50 years, our
study shows that androgen supplementation therapy may be
beneficial for treatment of certain types of human prostate
cancer and that the use of 5 alpha-reductase inhihitors, such as
finasteride or anti-androgens, in the general treatment of
metastatic prostate cancer may require careful assessment."

A. Vermeulen, "Testicular hormonal secretion and aging in
tales," in Benign prostatic hyperplasia (J. T. Grayhack, et al., eds),
pp. 177-182, DHEW Publ. No. (NIH) 76-1113, 1976.

A. Vermeulen, et al., “Testosterone secretion and metabolism
in male senescence,” J. Clin. Endocr. Metab. 34, 730-735, 1972,

A. Vermeulen, et af., "Hormona! factors related to abnormal
growth of the prostate," in Prostate Cancer (D. S. Coffev and J. T.
Issacs, eds). UICC Technical Workshop Series, Vol 48, 81-92,
UICC, Geneva. ,

5. Zuckerman and J. R. Groome, “The aetiology of benign
enlargement of the prostate in the dog,” J. Pathol. Bact. 44,
113-124, 1937.

B. Zumoff, et al., "Abnormal levels of plasma hormones in
men with prostate cancer: Evidence toward a ‘time-defense’ theory,”
The Prostate 3, 579-588, 1982.

M. Wehling, "Non-genomic steroid action--take a closer look,
it's not rare!" Eur. J. of Endorinol. 135, 287-288, 1996.

Wennbo H, Kindblom J, Isaksson OG, Tomell! J., Endocrinol-
ogy 1997 Oct;138(10):4410-4415. "Transgenic mice overexpress-
ing the prolactin gene develop dramatic enlargement of the prostate
gland," “An altered endocrine status of elderly men has been
hypothesized to be important for development of prostate byperpla-
sia. The present study addresses the question whether increased
PRL expression is of importance for development of prostate hyper-
plasia in mice. Three lines of PRL transgenic mice were generatod
having serum levels of PRL of approximately 15 ng/ml, 100 ng/nl,
and 250 ne/ml, respectively. These mice developed dramatic
enlargement of the prostate gland, approximately 20 times the
normal prostate weight and they had a 4- to 5-fold increased DNA
content. Histologically, the prostate glands in the transgenic mice
were distended from secretion, and the amount of interstitial tissue
was increased. The levels oftestosterone and IGF-I were increased
in the PRL transgenic animals. In mice overexpressing the bovine
GH gene, displaying elevated IGF-I levels, the prostate gland was
slightly larger compared with normal mice, indicating that the effect
of PRL was not primarily mediated through elevated plasma IGF-I
levels. "The present study suggests that PRL is an important
factor in the development of prostate hyperplasia acting directly
on the prostate gland or via increased plasma levels of
testosterone,”

