 All right, we should be on the air with Dr. Raymond Pete. This is Politics and Science. I'm the host, John Barkhausen, and today we're going to be talking about human health and the physiological implications of some of the chemical processes that happen in the body, namely reduction and oxidation and some of the other factors. My guest today is Dr. Raymond Pete. He has a Ph.D. in biology and speciality in physiology and Ray do you want to add anything to that? Yeah, when I was studying for my degree at the University of Oregon I got interested in oxidative processes as they relate to aging. And I've been thinking about... what oxidation means of all the ramifications for 40 or 50 years and still I'm curious how it really works. I see. So it's an ongoing scientific endeavor, I suppose, understanding it. Yeah, the idea of electrons moving around didn't matter. That's one of my longest standing interests. I think it started when I was a little kid, probably, but I'm still not satisfied that anyone knows what an electron is or how it works, but without knowing that, you really don't understand what's going on in oxidation, reduction, pH, free radicals, and so on. Yeah, maybe you could give us a little sense of the history of people trying to understand it. Biochemistry. How did it all start, do you think? Oh, well, the famous first demonstration that life processes are material chemistry was when a guy synthesized urea, and people had believed that that was a... maybe done by something special in the life process that couldn't be imitated in the real inert world, but just heating things, ammonia and carbon dioxide. I don't remember the exact chemicals, but it was demonstrated that you can make urea simply, mechanically, and so people started... thinking about the chemical processes that make up life and gradually getting away from the idea that there is something unique about the life process that is distinct from chemistry. I was just reading about... that was a Swedish person, is that correct, who figured out urea? Yeah, and that was, I think, around the Revolutionary War, 1760-something, but people must have experimented with bodily fluids before then. Was there much research done? Yeah, in the 18th century, people were really figuring out a lot about how organisms work, but the... official science, the stuff that got published and approved of by the government, that was a very slow process that was usually a hundred years behind the people on the ground who were really thinking about how things work. I mean science, for a large part, this is my understanding, was actually a private affair done by usually wealthy people sometimes, or not always, I suppose, but yeah, rich cranks, so they often put their particular philosophical or religious bent into the physical ideas, and it was because of that personal quality, science was really, you know, more literary and interesting and artistic before the universities took it over, and gradually, in physics, I guess the universities took control of it away from the cranks and the rich guys in the mid-19th century, and that was the physics that Einstein, for example. The leading academic physics was being done in Germany, and Einstein, being Jewish, resented the authoritarian dogma of the professors, and so he invented something that outwitted the authoritarian physics establishment. Yeah, that sort of reminds me of a general law of institutionalization that I'm making up here on the spot, but it seems like it takes the interest out of most fields once it gets franchised like that. I mean, religion, I think, used to be more of a personal experience before the church took over, and it sounds like it's the same with science. Yeah, and I think Einstein himself succumbed somewhat to that. authoritarian attitudes in the case of saying what an electron is, and 30 years later I think he regretted having set things in motion in that particular direction when he never accepted the quantum mechanics view of reality as based on randomness. But he was......largely responsible for setting that in motion with his theory of the photoelectric effect. And the idea of the electron as a discrete particle interacting with a photon as a discrete particle was the key idea in that photoelectric effect. A photon of a given energy would dislodge. An electron from the solid state giving it a certain voltage. And so you can talk about the electron energy or voltage of a given frequency of light. And that particularized or atomized the idea of both light and electrons. And that's it. That's something that allowed theory to take over and cover up and reject a lot of empirical, factual observation relating to light, color, electrons, molecules, and so on, and I think life. Wow. So, it's interesting, once you become an icon, you have to be very careful what you say. Yeah, I don't know how conscious he was of that, but he was very persistent in not entirely going along with the drift of the quantum physics establishment. Is atoms in general, I imagine, seeing the electron as an essential part of atomic structure, can you explain further how that actually set us on the wrong track? Around the time of the First World War, Michael Polanyi had demonstrated a continuous potential description of how gases are bound or absorbed on the solid surfaces and that was a smooth sort of process, a straight relationship between the pressure on the gas and the thickness of the absorbed layer. And he went to Berlin to present his experimental work on theory, Einstein and others. That was already ten years beyond the photoelectric theory and the particularization of light and electron energy or structure. And Einstein was one of the people that said, in the advanced science world here in Germany, we know that that just isn't possible because matter is particulate. You're just going to get forces smoothly extending away from the surface. If the surface has an electrical property and the gas has an electrical property, the first layer of gas atoms hitting that surface is going to perfectly neutralize that, so there's no potential extending through space. But Polanyi's results clearly showed that something like that was happening, a continuously thickening layer. And so Polanyi was defeated, and the people like Irving Langmuir 15 years later got the Nobel Prize for his idea that gases can only condense in a monolayer. Thank you. And Polanyi knew it was wrong, but he was a physics professor, and he had to teach the Langmuir isotherm. But in his own experimental work, Polanyi went along examining how molecules and crystals, solid-state things, work. And in one... area of research after another, he kept seeing continuity, things extending. For example, in the behavior of a crystal, where previously he had shown that gases on the surface of activated charcoal, for example, for multi-layers, working with crystals, he found that the events on the surface of a crystal......affected its elasticity and resistance all the way through. So, physically, the surface doesn't have the meaning that it seems to in geometry. For example, in working a crystal back and forth, it gets weaker and weaker as it accumulates. Some kind of fatigue or memory, and J.C. Bose had demonstrated that sort of thing and found that the fatigue could be recovered from in a crystal. But Polanyi was interested in the fact that the weakening involves energy flowing over long distances. creating areas of exaggerated weakness. And that was the same sort of effect that he saw when the surface of a crystal was wet. The surface effect modified the resistance and elasticity properties of the depth of the crystal. So... It was analogous, probably, to the idea of conduction bands in which, in metal, the electrons are delocalized. And you can think of particulate electrons acting this way, but Polanyi's work suggested that maybe that isn't the only or necessary way to think. of electrons. And when I was in graduate school, 1969 or 70, I was reading surface physics, especially as a way to help understand oxidation biologically. And in one of the physics journals, a man named Helmut Schwartz,...published a description of a funny experiment in which laser light is shined horizontally through a crystal while a beam of electrons goes through the other dimension of the crystal through this thin layer, a layer about less than a micron, half a micron or so thick. And the electrons passing through the crystal are deflected into a certain pattern by the electronic property of the crystal atoms that they pass by. So you can see the shape of the crystal reflected in the image of where the electrons hit. Ordinarily, that's done exposing electrons. Passing through the crystal, exposing a piece of photographic film to the electrons and getting a chemical change producing the image. But he found taking even a fluorescent screen away, putting an aluminum oxide coated layer at the bottom that was very non-reflective. And he found that... the electron spots were still there, but they had the blue tint of the laser light going sideways through the crystal. So the spots had to be the supposedly discrete particulate electrons for them to be deflected to exactly the right spots, which are used to... identify crystal structures and such. But at that spot, there shouldn't have been any light, but it was the color of the laser light modulating, in fact, the beam of electrons. And that, when I tried to talk to physics professors about it, they simply said, it can't happen, you can't... modulate one electron. And when you say modulate, you mean change color, or actually... Yeah, the color of an electron is supposed to be its relationship to the atom, and what it's doing is absorbing or interacting with a particular wavelength of the light, so the atom is subtracting or maybe fluorescing. But it's always subtracting or adding something according to the way it is bound to the atom. So an electron flying through space just wasn't acceptable. They preferred to say that the person was simply hallucinating or something. It was done at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and they had the best equipment of that sort in the world at the time. A lot of people immediately trying to replicate it didn't have the same degree of vacuum in their electron microscope, didn't have the same power of laser. Or the same quality of crystal making and so on, great cleanliness and so on, was part of the original experiment. So a lot of people, sort of like cold fusion, if it violates the theory and you don't have the same equipment exactly, it's very easy to debunk something just by doing a slightly different... set up and getting different results. Yeah, that's right. Today's genius... well, actually, today's crackpot is possibly tomorrow's genius in many cases. Very recently, Helmut Schwartz, who became the head of Germany's research granting institution, the government's money dispenser for research, said that outsiders... are important everywhere, not just in science. You don't get advanced unless you have people somewhat on the fringe. If anybody wants to google minority opinions in science, there's actually a huge amount of information out there of scientists who have been sidelined for their viable research, but because it's bucking the current. Institutions or the money that's coming into those institutions, they're not getting any traction with any of their work and in fact a lot of the research is being taken away from them, research facilities. So it's a lot bigger faction of science than anybody hears about because of course they don't get any press either. And I've been noticing that institutions like the Wikipedia. Supposedly, the Internet should be an opportunity to disseminate descending ideas. But the culture of authoritarian science is so strong that you see it affecting the way Wikipedia works. It's sort of like a sounding board for the most authoritarian. Yeah, and that makes sense because if you have the money of an institution behind you, you have the money to pay a staff member to keep updating Wikipedia and editing anybody's other input. It's kind of like he who has the most resources wins the argument. So I was a little confused about the particulate electrons versus... Is it a wave theory is the alternative or one of the alternatives to that? What's wrong with the particles? Well, since you can't explain many events in terms of particles, it becomes sort of mathematical magic to try to make up theories to explain results like pull-on use. Or Schwartz's. Albert St. Georgie used conventional quantum thinking about electrons and went a long way towards explaining some of the biological phenomena that people hadn't been able to even perceive. But that doesn't mean that... that it necessarily validates the particular electron just because you can explain some important phenomena. So I think it should mean that the whole idea of what matter is how an electron works, whether it might be that there is an electric hole. Ether-like material which breaks up in different ways into apparently discrete electrons, but rather than being an eternally discrete particle like a proton is supposed to be, the electron might be sort of an ad hoc diffusion. wave interpretation is approaching that idea, and some of the subatomic thinkers are saying that maybe this great variety of subatomic particles being seen with high energy research, maybe these are just sort of an ad hoc response of matter to a particular context or environment order. So it might just be an aspect you're seeing depending on the medium you're using to see it with. Yeah, exactly. And that would say that in a different solar system or different galaxy, the atoms are not necessarily going to be the same exact, have the same functionality. And that... is an implication of Halton Arp's comments on his galaxy photographs. OK, now that you've brought that up, you better explain what that means again. He showed that what appear to be continuously connected groups of stars... One of the parts of what seems to be a continuous stream of stars, one of the parts will have an extreme redshift difference from the other one, meaning that they should be very remote in space, but his pictures show connections like one is being shot out of the other. And he suggests that the one being shot out......is newly created and that new matter has a different way of vibrating......which shows up as a redshift. In other words, the atoms are different when they're fresh. I see. And you said, I think last time or another time we talked, that a redshift means something's moving away from you in space? Yeah, that's the standard mechanical physics connection, like the Doppler effect. When a train passes, the frequency drops. I see. So, but you're saying it also could have other implications. Yeah, for example, light passing close to a star has a frequency shift. An Israeli physicist astronomer named Dror Sade was working in the U.S. And he was... studying at different times the light of a star passing close to the sun and of a beeping quasar pulsar that sends out a certain frequency passing close to the sun. And he kept seeing what seemed to be a time change or a frequency change. All right. Depending on how close the beam came to the sun. And he got an atomic clock at the U.S. Bureau of Standards and mounted another one on the truck and connected them by radio so that they could be synchronized. And then drove up the coast. I think he went up towards Maine. He, meanwhile, recorded the relationship between these two clocks as he went and saw that every morning at sunrise, Washington, D.C. seemed to be red-shifted away from his truck. His argument was that something about the......field of the sun coming on the scene was shifting the radio waves that were connecting the two clocks, otherwise it would have looked like you had an expanding universe to a ridiculous extent in which Washington was moving a million miles an hour away from Maine. Well, I think it may be. They seem remarkably out of touch with real life, anyway. Well, that's fascinating, right? And so we're talking about the nature of the universe and ourselves, and particularly electrons, I guess, and electrical fields. So you're saying that the... the sun's Electrical field when it or maybe it isn't even electrical, but the wave from the Sun of radiation is possibly altering time slightly He I think he was thinking in terms of Gravitational field. Oh, but I don't know exactly What sunrise would mean, okay? It's in terms of his thinking. How do you spell his name, Ray, so we could go look up on the internet what he's up to? First name D-R-O-R. Okay. S-A-D-E-H. Okay. He was killed in radiation poisoning in the atomic bomb laboratories in Israel. All right, the non-atomic bomb laboratories making the bombs they don't have. Yeah. Yeah, that's terrible. So, obviously, it makes a difference how you think about electrons and if you're trying to figure out how these molecular processes are happening. And this show is going to be about physiology, but I guess it......makes a real difference of what your general theory of atomic structure is. You know, the idea of the particular nature of matter sort of spread or diffused into the thinking process, so that atoms, the same way Einstein couldn't tolerate multi-layer adsorption in 1915, would create the kind of biochemists can't tolerate long-range processes in biochemistry. And one of the things in chemistry that resembles what Polanyi was seeing in crystals and his other experiments, the inductive effect is... at the basis of really fundamental biological thinking about co-acerbates, for example. Bungenberg de Jong founded a line of thinking that eventually led to Gilbert Ling's way of seeing the cell as a special state. One of the basic and simple chemical physical principles necessary to think this way is called electronic induction in a molecule. When you have atoms that are electron withdrawing, or they have an affinity for electrons, you put them in a molecule and the charge or the intensity of the electrons effect shifts down the molecular chain towards that electron withdrawing atom or group. So it's like a partial electron. That's an essential part now of organic chemistry that you have partial charges. But when you really take that seriously and see that this effect exists everywhere in every molecule in the cell, it goes to another level, which is the... coordinated or coherent effects of the electron-inducing groups. So you have a collective kind of reaction in which you pass a threshold, in sort of the way liquid water passes to solid water. They can be at the same temperature but someone has to start the process and then it can go like a cascade all at once. The atoms will fall into place and change the state. So you can have solid water at somewhat above the melting temperature or liquid water well below the freezing temperature. If you don't have this cooperativity of molecules and atoms and when you combine these ideas of cooperativity and induction you get these group effects where you have a change of state in effect with full pass....through the bulk of the material so that you can start thinking about how it works with looking at the effects of pH on a protein. Okay. But that's the simplest effect of the pH, the same all the way through a solution and a protein. With its various charged groups responding to that pH so that the internal fields are intensified or decreased according to the pH. So you can have a protein expanding or collapsing according to the pH of its surroundings. But then when you add other molecules. Binding or associating with that protein. And those have electron withdrawing or donating properties. Then the way that protein responds to a certain pH is different. I see. And these electron withdrawing molecules are in a sense a partial oxidation. Oxidation being taking away of electrons. So the degree of oxidation in a molecule defines how electron withdrawing it is and the totality of molecules with that quality in the system such as a protein or a group of proteins in a solvent....affect the global degree of oxidation of the system, and when it reaches a certain point and instead of just one protein collapsing or expanding, you get the same pre-smelt transition in which one protein triggers another one and so on. I see. So you get coherent, cooperative... types of changes throughout the system. That's where the tending to think discreetly has been so strongly affected by the particulate electron, particulate proton, particulate photon type of thinking so that people don't like to... get involved in those cooperative global effects. Attached to that substance. So if you're telling protein and then the protein might have other molecules attached to it that actually Enhance or deter the change happening yeah, and that's one of the complexities of the living state is that It if you kill it It doesn't work the same So you have to think of it. It's always in a certain environment environment hmm that you have to really think of it as a flow from from the environment in and out and the rate of flow and intensity of flow and so on mm-hmm the the way people think about antioxidants even tends to turn into a static description rather than a A flowing process. The cell is always, when it's alive, maintaining a delicate balance between oxidation and reduction. And so antioxidants are a dynamic process in which they're also oxidants. If you push towards a dominance of reduction, then you kill the cell. in a different way. Ray, can you back up a little bit and just explain the origin of the word oxidant and what it means? In the 18th century, when they were thinking of phlogiston, you had to de-phlogisticate something. What does that mean? Something that left a burning substance and it meant the exhaustion when phlogiston had filled up the space, you couldn't burn anything more in it. It made it very hard to understand chemical reactions, but then, priestly... I guess Lavoisier was another one, two or three people around the same time were seeing that there was something being consumed from the air in the process of burning rather than added to it. And when they started studying... what was being consumed in the air, they saw that it generally made an acid form. And so the... I think it was Priestley who named it the substance that makes burning possible in the air. He called the acid former or the oxygen......oxygen... the root for......acid or sour so many acids were formed by oxygen that got its name as the source of acid and it isn't an absolute there are acids without oxygen and that leads into the whole issue of pH but......thinking of oxygen in relation to its ability to form acids that's very important to integrate with your thinking of what a cell is doing and people tend to have begun thinking of carbon dioxide as simply a waste product but if you think of... the electronic balance between oxidation and reduction, holding the proteins and other things of the cell in a certain very specific state or conformation, changing the pH is crucial and this partial oxidation that you get... at a lower pH which governs the arrangement of the protein and other substances. Carbon dioxide turns out to be a universal balancing factor or adjuster of the acidic properties of the protein. So the acid formed... by oxygen, in this case, carbon dioxide. In itself, it's an acid, as defined by Gilbert Lewis. And it doesn't have the protons, so you needn't talk about the pH really, because it's a non-proteic acid, just two oxygens and a carbon. But this arrangement, an oxygen doubly bonded to a carbon, creates that electron withdrawing property, the intrinsic partial oxidizing property of that molecule, which when it attaches to a protein, it increases the acidity of the protein, making it slightly partially. more oxidized, more acidic, and that changes its affinity for other things according to how negatively charged its groups are. This is the kind of thinking that led up to the Gilbert Ling orientation, accounting for cells and their metabolism. Without the hypothetical membrane and its pumps, the pH and the acid property of the protein system maintained by the carbon dioxide produced by oxidation. This is the central thing in explaining why cells can discriminate between. Sodium and potassium and calcium and magnesium and all of the discriminations that cells make. You don't need a little magic pump moving things in and out that would consume more energy than the cell has. The energy of the cell is really being produced to form carbon dioxide. ________________ And the carbon dioxide is changing and maintaining the properties, preventing excess electron accumulation. And since it's a continuing streaming process, you have oxygen streaming in and carbon dioxide streaming out. And the carbon dioxide reacting. As an acid with water shifts the property of the water atom, so the water joins with the carbon dioxide forming carbonic acid, which ionizes. You now have a negative charge on the carbon dioxide streaming out of the cell. It takes a positive. It charges out with it otherwise the cell would quickly become highly electrically charged so the movement of oxygen in and carbon dioxide out is taking out the sodium and calcium as a streaming continuous maintenance process. Wow! So, this is the, most people have heard of the membrane theory of cells, that they're basically bags holding this cytoplasm in. And this is, in case you didn't get this, this is an alternative theory that it's actually being regulated by the products of the mitochondria, is that right Ray? So the mitochondria is producing the CO2 when it makes the ATP. The energy we all use, the ATP, and so the CO2 starts off as an electron acceptor, but then it becomes negatively charged and that bonds with the positive metal ions, the magnesium and calcium. Yeah, it doesn't necessarily bond with them, but in leaving they tend to get dragged out too. I see, and why is the CO2 leaving? Just because it's big. Constantly formed inside and it just diffuses out down the gradient. So that's like an osmotic pressure? No. Yeah, well, a diffusion pressure. It's going down the gradient like if you put alcohol against water, they'll tend to mix, the alcohol will move into the water. And the water into the alcohol, until they're more or less even, and when you have a high concentration of CO2 in the cell, at a certain point it starts being more at ease outside of the cell. I see. So it's a diffusion process. Yeah, and that accounts for taking it out into the extracellular space in the blood. When it gets into the blood, having taken the sodium and some other things with it, it circulates to the lungs and changes back to carbon dioxide, which is again going down its gradient from a high concentration in your blood. to a lower concentration in the fresh air you breathe, so the carbon dioxide is leaving the blood and it leaves behind the molecules or ions that it took out of the cells. So the absence of the acidic carbon dioxide in the blood leaves the blood now with a higher pH because of the movement of... sodium and such out of the cell. Hmm. I see. So the normal situation is for a healthy cell to be just faintly under neutrality and for the blood to be definitely over neutrality, like inside the cell 6.9 pH and... in the blood 7.4 roughly. Okay. 7.4, I see, so that's a little bit higher than the cell is low. Yeah. Yeah, go on. The... a lot of people have seen a disease as caused by......a low pH or too much acidity, and in the case of stress and cancer, a tumor will become very acidic. So that traditional idea has a basis that an infection or a tumor, the inflammation produces high concentration of lactic acid. And a very low pH in that area, which does have disruptive toxic effects on that area. And so the body is able generally to correct that and reduce the inflammation and stop the production of lactic acid. But when lactic acid is formed, it... The conversion from pyruvic acid to lactic acid is drawing an extra proton out of the NADH catalyst that causes the conversion. And in taking away this extra proton as it leaves, it... in its formation, it raises the pH inside the cell. So even though a tumor or an infection is locally, you see excess acid, hydro lactic acid, inside the cell that's doing that, it's the reverse process. You get an increase in the pH inside the cell. So the cell which is stuck, if it gets stuck in producing lactic acid because it can't produce CO2, then that means it also tends to get stuck at a higher pH and this higher pH changes the whole system and that's where you tend to get a self-replicating tumor. Because the normal acidic conditions maintained by the CO2 are lost. I see. Okay, that's good to know and maybe you could explain for us. I don't think you have to go through the entire cycle but you're talking about cellular respiration and I don't think people generally know that pyruvic, when you're talking about that, you're talking about the products or the process of... making the energy that we all use, and could you just give us a little cliff note version of that? Yeah, looking at us in our environment, we're really sort of sandwiched between the sugar energy we get from plants and the carbon dioxide that we make as the final product of the energy from the sugar. And... a series of changes in the sugar molecule, each oxidation of that molecule adds a little chemical energy to the cell that the cell can use to make proteins as it degrades the sugar, it builds up amino acids and proteins and fats. And when you're unable to oxidize the sugar all the way down to carbon dioxide and produce lactic acid instead halfway, you're losing the greatest part of the energy stored in the glucose molecule and that lack of energy has its repercussions. Thanks very much Martin for this information and I'll keep it in touch as soon as I'm over when there's really a lack of oxygen to continue the oxidation that NADH which allowed pyruvic acid to take this shortcut off into the semi toxic lactic acid that has to be renewed before you can even make another lactic acid so without oxygen. You need some kind of oxidant to even continue producing that kind of low energy from sugar to pyruvic and lactic acid and to do that cells can produce fat and get rid of their electrons by building them into fat. Building fat, in a way, is an alternative, a very bad one, to using up oxygen and making CO2. So, interestingly, cancers which get stuck in the exclusive use of converting glucose or amino acids to lactic acid as their energy supply They also get stuck making fat. Fat becomes their oxygen, in effect. And then when they still have mitochondrial function, the cell burns fat as its energy source. It's really a deranged and crazy kind of metabolism to produce an irritant lactic acid, and to do that it has to make fat which is then used as fuel with its own consequences. And that's called glycolysis? Yeah, it's aerobic glycolysis when you make lactic acid in the presence of oxygen. And ordinary anaerobic glycolysis is what happens when you exercise too hard. You can build up lactic acid in getting out of breath, the blood lactate. It increases if you exercise faster than your breathing and that's normal. You can a little later consume and oxidize the lactic acid and that's okay. When you start producing lactic acid even in the presence of oxygen as in the case of cancer or extreme trauma or shock. The same thing happens when something turns the trigger so that even though oxygen is present in shock, you will waste your sugar and make lactic acid. I see, so oxygen is there but you're unable to use it. Yeah, and the nervous system is in the case of shock, at least the nervous system is involved in making that aerobic glycolysis and so there are quite a few people who have suggested that the nervous system is involved in in the cancer transition doing the same thing that shock and trauma can do acutely. Hmm, wow. I have to take a short break here and say that you're listening to WMRW LP Warren, and we're streaming live at WMRW.org or 95.1 FM, and you're listening to Politics and Science. I'm John Barkeisen, the host, and my guest today is Dr. Raymond Peete. He has a Ph.D. in Biology and a specialty in Physiology, and we're talking around the subject of oxidation and health. I'm Dr. Raymond Peete. And what role oxidation plays in maintaining that health. There's more I want to ask you about the not being able to use the oxygen that's present in anaerobic, it's anaerobic glycolysis even though there's oxygen there. It can be anaerobic. Oh, and then it's called aerobic glycolysis, I see. And how does the mitochondria make do with burning a fat? How is that even possible? It's a... And what are the problems with that? It produces less carbon dioxide, for example. I think that's the main problem. If you develop fat stores, you get particles of fat accumulating in the cytoplasm and maybe in the nucleus that probably have a disruptive effect when you're heavily shifted over to a fat economy. I don't know. The tumor makes saturated fat as its first product in converting sugar to saturated fat. But when it's shifting in the presence of stress, when it shifts to burning fat, usually that will go through your fat stores burning up your... your subcutaneous fat quickly so when a person is very sick with cancer for example, they get a gaunt, emaciated look as their superficial fat stores are used up and at the same time they convert amino acids to energy converting some of it to sugar and some to fat. And so it starts a wasting process but our stores, the older person gets generally the higher the amount of polyunsaturated fat in their stores. And when you're oxidizing polyunsaturated fats that produces more oxidative damage to the mitochondria. So it tends to... lower the oxidative part of metabolism and slow things down in general. I see. And then people end up feeling a lot less energy levels and generally get run down overall. Yeah, that happens in mid-life to lots of people that it resembles the cancer metabolism, but it just shows up as fatigue. Low energy use in general. Some people, where textbooks used to say that you would always lose weight if you ate less than 1700 calories per day. Lots of people can maintain their weight on 700 calories a day. That requires turning off of the thyroid. So you're being wasteful even though you're not using very much energy at all. What you are using tends to be poorly used and destructive so you tend to reduce your connective tissue and muscle and digestive system and so on. rather than just living on what you're eating or stored fat. So basically you're hibernating? You got fuzzy, I couldn't tell. Can you hear me now? It's very gurgly. Okay, I'm going to call you back. We'll resume. Okay. Okay, bye. Hello, you're on the air? Can you hear me? Yeah, you're still a little hard. Not as bad as it was. Okay, you're coming through fine, so if you can put up with it, we're good to go. Okay. So are fats always part of the process of respiration, oxidizing fats, or is that only when you're ill? Yeah, it's only under stress, generally. Starvation, or diabetes, or a high level of stress. I see. A lot of people are on those ketosis diets, where they don't eat any carbohydrates. And does that cause you to burn fats? And protein. And protein, right. Your brain and some other tissues, the intestine and red blood cells. Various little areas but especially the brain have an absolute requirement for some sugar, some glucose and they'll get it by breaking down amino acids and they get that from eating your tissues if you aren't eating enough amino acids. If you are eating amino acids as your energy source, fats and amino acids, you turn on the machinery for turning amino acids into glucose and fat and running that machinery involves turning on stress hormones, a whole range of hormones. adjust to it and I think those have chronic harmful effects. I see, so I know when people do it they're usually in a very controlled setting, they go in for regular checkups and I think that I don't actually know but I think they take blood and urine samples and you know they're trying to make sure you're not actually endangering yourself. Most of the proteins that are are being eaten. Under those systems, most of them are too high in phosphate and usually too high in in mesionine, cysteine and tryptophan. Cysteine is an excitotoxic amino acid and mesionine is involved in stress and aging in proportion to its excess. Most effective life-extending diets is simply to reduce the amount of methionine in the diet drastically. So the sulfur amino acids and tryptophan are stress and aging promoters, especially cytotoxic damage to the nerves. And the high phosphate for most of the... popular proteins, the high phosphate is... has a lot of excitatory harmful effects. The clathal gene and protein that is deficient in animals that have a very quick aging process, that's... largely a phosphate-handling protein. And the rapid aging produced by lacking that protein and gene involves accumulating excess phosphate. And that phosphate you get from eating meat, primarily? Meat is one of the highest ratios of phosphate to... the other minerals. But several of the very high quality proteins, even mushrooms, have a pretty high ratio of phosphate to calcium. Milk and cheese are about half and half, which is probably safe, but fruits and leaves, leafy green vegetables, have a very safe low, very low... phosphate content relative to calcium and magnesium and potassium. I see. So fruits and vegetables are the best, but you're not getting much protein in that case, so you need some milk and cheese too? Yeah, and probably a fairly low protein diet is very good for the health. In the sense of living a long time, but for maintaining tissue renewal, you can't go below a certain amount of tryptophan, cysteine, and methionine. Those are rapid turnover proteins. Okay. You know, I think, Ray, I'm going to turn to some of the questions I received from people in preparation for the show, because I'm going to have a little bit more time to answer some of the questions. I'm going to turn to some of the questions I received from people in preparation for I know if I wait, we're going to be short on time, and I want to make sure you have time to answer them. Last week we talked about, or you mentioned, Luca Turin and his research on, I think it was odors and the electrical nature of odors. He had, maybe you could, when you get to answering this you could go over that a little bit, but somebody wanted to know what your feelings are about multiple chemical sensitivity. And that's pretty common these days. A lot of people can be made very ill by a perfume or the smell of bounce. And what do you think is going on and does that relate to Luca Turin's work? Yeah, I think it does. And he was talking specifically about smell and psychoactive like antidepressant chemicals. And when you look at what's in common between smelling and having the antidepressant effect of some chemicals, what's in common is the resonance state or the tuning of the molecule to the oxidation state. Which is in this context of partially oxidized proteins in a coherent cooperative system. The whole system has to be tuned to a certain level of reduction and oxidation. And the addition of a chemical, whether it's an antidepressant or a perfume molecule. Passes along the conductive pathways of the nervous system and the cells all through the body are involved in the delicate nerve balances and the autonomic nervous system regulates the state of inflammation of the tissues, for example. There are lots of cells closely associated with the fibers of the nervous system, cells called mast cells, for example, that can regulate inflammation all through the body, in the brain as well as all the other tissues, and these are connected and balanced with the nervous system. A slight shift in your autonomic nervous system can globally change the degree of inflammation all through your body, increasing the amount of histamine and serotonin and the various products of the mast cells. This is when a person is under stress chronically. These inflammatory things tend to rise and when you increase your intensity of mitochondrial respiration and your level of carbon dioxide, that stabilizes the system, backs away from that excess inflammatory reductive impulse. But when you're right on the edge, just balanced, not... intense enough oxidation going on, then a perfume molecule or a psychoactive chemical or a food molecule can send impulses through your system, shifting you away from the oxidative excitatory processes towards the side of your nervous system that becomes dominant in shock. So I think the chronic fatigue and chemical sensitivity inflammatory states are in effect a variation on the physiology of shock. That's really fascinating. I mean, it's amazing that somebody can actually wear a product because they like the smell, but that same product, the smell of which can... make somebody else deadly ill. Yeah, I think it depends on the way your nervous and chemical system is tuned up. I mean, oxidation and reduction is involved in all of our processes that are chemical. The lactic acid is a reductant as well as a product of being reduced. And turning it into lactic acid from pyruvic acid involves an electronic addition or reduction. But it then, when it goes to a balanced or healthy cell, it shifts the balance towards reduction and if you have oxygen in that cell, it's okay. The electrons will be. Consumed but lactic acid itself has this potential for shifting the balance. For example, in the mast cells that are signals for more inflammation, too much lactic acid will activate their releases and so systemically, letting too much lactic acid circulate is adding to the inflammatory state. And I know you've told me before people might be interested in this that you're not very fond of yogurt because of the lactic acid so you can actually absorb lactic acid from your food directly. Yeah, there are some kinds of yogurt that have very little lactic acid. You can thicken the milk enzymically rather than... with a lot of acid. And those very mild yogurts aren't especially harmful, but if they're very sour with lactic acid and if your liver is on edge, not enough thyroid function, then that slight shift towards the reduction side can have systemic effects and can bring on allergic reactions, migraine headaches and such. Thank you for watching. And so, just talking specifically about yogurt, we have a local yogurt maker around here and I find if you buy it immediately, as soon as it comes out, there's no apparent lactic acid in it, but the longer it sits, the more the acid separates from the actual milk product, so I'm wondering, is that acid forming as it goes, or is it always in there and you just shouldn't eat it, period? No, the bacteria are making it. Okay, so a young yogurt would be fine? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, because you can also strain your yogurt, which is the same as buying Greek yogurt, and that gets rid of it and basically makes a thicker or cheesier product. Yeah, that's the... the idea of cottage cheese. They drain away most of the fluid, the whey, and that takes away the almost all of the lactic acid from most cheeses. Okay, well that's good to know that fresh yogurt is okay. I guess I've got a question coming in on the same subject we were talking about a second ago. This is from Duncan. I bought a perfume base from a chemical company some years ago. And it was so toxic that UPS was afraid to deliver it. I had to go pick it up myself. On the MSDS toxicity scale, which goes from zero to four, this was a six. Yep, two points over the max for chemical toxicity. Perfumes are very poisonous, he concludes. What's the MSDS? Is that the manufacturer's safety data sheet? Thank you, yes. All right. And he also asked, do you contribute to Wikipedia? No. Okay. Oh, go ahead. Someone has asked me to comment on the Association Induction Hypothesis article, a very good long article describing Gilbert Ling's theory. A lot of people are jumping on it, saying that it should be eliminated from Wikipedia because it's wrong. Yeah, I don't know how you get involved. When I find out, I think I'll say, keep it, please. I'm a 34-year-old male, and since about 8 months, type 1 diabetic. I believe I got diabetes after x-rays from my dentist. I take daily insulin and follow a pro-metabolic diet. I supplement Aspirin, Vitamin A, Vitamin E, Vitamin K, B1, B3, Glycine, Pregnenolone, Magnesium Glycinate. I am still in a so-called honeymoon phase and I would very much like to prolong this phase or even get off all insulin. Do you have any tips or supplements I might add to my regimen? And he says thank you from the bottom of his heart. Before I was born, my father… …had extreme diabetes, went down to something like 90 pounds or less, couldn't assimilate any kind of food, even pure protein, raised his urine glucose tremendously, and looking at old naturopathic remedies, he started eating. As his only food, brewer's yeast, he ate, I guess, two cups a day at first and immediately stopped producing so much glucose in his urine and in a few months was completely well. Every maybe five years or so after that he would eat some extra brewer's yeast but never had any symptom of that. Diabetes after that and I think part of that effect is the hormones in the yeast which stimulate regeneration and high potassium content which has an insulin like action and the high B vitamins but having enough glucose. So that you don't draw any polyunsaturated fats out of storage. Those are very toxic to the insulin producing cells in the pancreas. Normally they are constantly turning over, the beta cells are being renewed constantly. And in a diabetic they are being renewed but they die quickly. And sugar is a factor that will prolong their lifespan. It doesn't need anything to stimulate renewal just to prevent them being killed primarily by the polyunsaturated fats. And the nitric oxide is soon after it was discovered that... The body produces its own nitric oxide. In the early 90s, many articles came out demonstrating that nitric oxide is specifically what kills the beta cells. And so you definitely don't want to do anything that would increase your nitric oxide production. What kind of activity does that? Supplementing... arginine or food cyan arginine wouldn't probably be desirable. Okay. And I think the effects of aspirin and the B vitamins and the vitamin E, I think it was someone who was pregnant and then progesterone and DHEA around 1985, I think it was someone... gave rabbits diabetes with a chemical toxin and then gave them a supplement of DHEA and that was the only difference. The ones that got the DHEA regenerated healthy insulin producing pancreases. And that has to be taken in small amounts or you convert it to estrogen is that right? Yeah, 10 to 15 milligrams is probably a safe amount. Alright, and one of the things that I think everybody will be surprised by is that you're actually advocating taking sugar or glucose. Yeah, a couple of articles on my website give some of the history of that in the late 19th century. A couple of doctors described cases that they cured from really advanced terminal diabetes, people losing weight at a terrific rate. They added something like 12 ounces per day of sugar to an otherwise good diet, regular high protein and vegetables. Milk and so on. But just by adding 12 ounces of sugar to that diet, in just a few weeks, people came back from near death. And I guess their logic was, since they were urinating out so much of their bodily sugar, they figured maybe they were short on sugar. Yeah, exactly. Their reasoning at first was, they're dying so fast that they're putting... out the equivalent of a pound of tissue converted to sugar every day and just to slow down their starvation process, they said, and they crave sugar, why not let them eat what they crave and maybe slow down their death, but instead they stopped wasting away and came back. you And I want to go back a little bit to because I think I did the person who asked the Multiple chemical sensitivity question a little short shrift and that I never asked you what can somebody do? if if they're suffering from multiple chemical sensitivity I'm supplementing thyroid is the usual thing, but sometimes they're very low in cholesterol and And since thyroid works partly through converting cholesterol to hormones like progesterone, DHA, and pregnenolone, if your cholesterol is too low, thyroid alone doesn't necessarily do it, so supplementing one or more of those will very quickly often relieve the exaggerated sensitivity. Okay, and it sounds like you said that the rabbits were given diabetes just by being poisoned with a toxin, and it sounds like that's happened. A lot of our diseases are actually environmentally caused. I know they say a lot of people have predispositions to cancer and diabetes and stuff like that, but I don't think that's the case. I personally suspect a lot of it is just environmentally from the pollution that's inevitable in our industrial society. When I was starting on my dissertation project, I wondered what the factors were that slowed down oxidative processes in aging. As I looked around at the possibilities. I saw that the same type of deterioration, the same biochemical patterns of interference with mitochondrial respiration were produced by a great variety of stresses. Some ionizing radiation or even ultraviolet to excess had an effect similar to ____________________________________. All of the estrogens and the aromatic hydrocarbon carcinogens and hydrocarbons that produce ____________ stopped the characteristic damage they were seeing in lab rats and industrial animals from feeding them too much unsaturated fat and my thesis advisor found that the effects of too much estrogen were corrected by a very large vitamin E supplement and others were finding that vitamin E. protects even against radiation and sunburn and so some of the processes like the breakdown of polyunsaturated fats are increasing our susceptibility to damage from all of those stressors radiation estrogen toxic heavy metals and so on. And Ray is referring to the the liquid oils that everywhere in our food supply the canola oil. I think you think olive oils not too bad and butter is good but all the vegetable oils except for coconut are not a good idea. Yeah olive oil has only eight or ten percent of the unstable polyunsaturated butter and coconut oil have two or maybe three percent of the. unstable ones. I've recently finally shifted in accordance with something that I read about 40 years ago on the absence of cancer in animals that were fed different types of oil. Coconut oil was safer than olive oil which was safer than safflower oil and the polyunsaturated but the safest of them all was hydrogenated coconut oil and recently I found a place to get some just to try it out and it has a very nice clean taste and texture and it's free of trans fatty acids as well as polyunsaturated fats. The problem is the supplier doesn't supply at retail only. Car lot loads. So did you get a semi? Is it parked out back? Behind your house? It was a very involved process to get a few gallons of it. Wow. Sometimes you can say you're thinking of buying a semi but you just want a sample. Yeah. Yeah. Well that's interesting. Did some of the animals get to eat butter? Oh, yeah, butter and coconut oil were the safest natural oils. Okay, and so let's talk about, this is another thing that confuses me about oxidation reduction is sometimes they refer to it as hydrogenation or dehydrogenation, but they're still talking about oxidation and reduction, aren't they? And yeah, it's just a movement of electrons that... They're talking about the... when we make... when we turn saturated fat into unsaturated fat in our own bodies, we dehydrogenate it. And when a cow turns unsaturated fat from their food into saturated fat for the butter, it's bacteria in their intestine and rumen which is saturating it or hydrogenating it. So dehydrogenation is something that we do in our own body. I see. And maybe you could describe for us what is actually happening to the molecule. You're actually removing the hydrogen and that's what oxidizes it? They're actually referring to the electron, the movement of electrons out of the bonds is what makes the difference. The usual thing that you move is a hydrogen atom or two hydrogen atoms. And when you take those away, like if it's on... the two adjoining carbon atoms in a fat molecule, there was a bond of two electrons between the carbons. You take away a hydrogen from each one and it takes... it's the proton and one electron leave in each case and they combine two hydrogen atoms, turn into hydrogen gas or... go to some other molecule, and the left behind electrons join with each other, so you get a double bond for electrons adjoining those carbon atoms, and the absence of the space filling hydrogen seems to leave that range of electrons between carbons. open and more reactive, so when you get a lot of hydrogens removed, that makes access of oxygen atoms to the fat molecule easier. I see, so that's why Crisco is actually a liquid oil, but it's had the hydrogen added to it. Yeah, and if they would complete the process the way they do in changing coconut oil from two or three percent PUFA to zero percent PUFA, you wouldn't get the trans fats in it. So you would have totally saturated and mostly stearic acid. In Crisco and that would be safe. One group of researchers found that aged defective mitochondria that were not respiring properly when they gave them fully saturated hydrogenated, I think it was peanut oil, it restored mitochondrial function. Wow, so it's a way of purifying it. Yeah, and it eliminates the unstable quality that makes things susceptible to oxidation. Physiologically, there is something called the saturation index. You can look at a person's red blood cells and find the ratio of stearic acid fully saturated to linoleic acid. Or linoleic, different degrees of unsaturation and the longer, even more unsaturated. And people with cancer have a low saturation index, it's a very stabilizing thing to, like a newborn baby is, highly. saturated in its fats. In recent years a lot of nutrition oriented doctors are saying you must give babies fish oil and other highly unsaturated things because most babies are born deficient in the essential fatty acids but that's the normal state of a newborn animal. It's strange because... It just shows how disconnected the medical authorities are with nature. I mean, if you'd ever look for anything, for an idea of what perfection is, I think you'd look at a newborn creature. Yeah, the rate of oxidation is highest. I'm just... I'm not sure how much... how you would compare the prenatal oxidative state, but right at the newborn, the consumption of oxygen and the sugar per gram of tissue is higher than it will ever be later, and it decreases, especially at puberty, with the rise of the sex hormones, the oxidation rate... decreases more sharply, and mortality rate increases as the oxidation rate decreases. Right, see, that makes perfect sense. Now, I better get back to my questions here from interested people. Martin asks about salt, and these are three questions about salt, and I'll just run through them as quickly as I can. Can salt ingestion trigger migraines in some predisposed people? Example, Max Gearson. And what would be the physiological explanation? Shall I read them all or do you want to take them one at a time? Oh, are they related to the salt? Yeah, they're all about salt restriction. Yeah, the others... Okay, here's number two. Here's number two. Do you believe salt restriction was useful in the University of Munich's 1928 tuberculosis trial with Max Gerson's diet under the supervision of Ferdinand Sauerbruch? If yes, was the beneficial effect due to a release of excess intracellular water? And three, if salt restriction is useful in evacuating excess intracellular water present in degenerative diseases? Is it useful to keep restricting it once this excess intracellular water has been evacuated? Should cancer patients keep avoiding salt after a few months of a saltless diet? I read Gerson's book and he was very, very good, thorough. He saw the effects of the diet. First on migraines and then tuberculosis and then cancer and he tried to understand it and he seems to have read just about everything in the first half of the century on the subject. The salts are extremely important. The other contemporary of his ________________ cancer researcher had a very interesting parallel set of facts regarding salt. William Frederick Koch who is a chemistry professor at Michigan early in the century was studying the removal of salt. of the parathyroid glands and a calcium supplement was the typical remedy for the cramping reaction to the removal of the parathyroid and the doctrine was developed that the parathyroid regulates calcium and so you need to replace calcium. When the gland is removed, but Koch did the surgery on animals and found that if he gave them extra potassium or sodium or magnesium, it had the same curative effect and the essential fact was that one of these can... make up for a deficiency of the other, and the Gerson diet was extremely high in the other minerals, especially potassium, and the diet always had the amount of sodium that you would have in juice, leaves and fruits and vegetables and so on, so it was... always a physiological amount of sodium, but often a very excessive large amount of potassium and magnesium, and I think these were the essence of Gerson's success rather than just the reducing sodium, because when you look at particular experiments, sodium can stimulate the respiration of a cell and cause it to unswell, give up excess water. If you lower the other minerals and give it too much sodium, you can force it to swell and take up water, but its normal physiological function is to act as a stimulant, calcium. It tends to do the same, but the cell normally is excluding sodium and it perceives sodium as an irritant or stimulant and revs up its oxidative metabolism when it has a little extra sodium and the increased oxidative metabolism. It produces carbon dioxide and restores the balance. So when they're in balance, the right amount of sodium is increasing energy production and decreasing cell water content. And much of this stuff hadn't been specifically examined during... Gerson's lifetime but he was definitely on to something and was curing migraine and cancer. But he very typically would give his patients a couple of grains of armor thyroid and very often coffee enemas and they were always having a very high ratio of carbohydrate to... protein, so they were low on the methionine and tryptophan and the potentially toxic amino acids And generally lots of things in this program were very well well founded, but there just wasn't enough information at that time about how the balance of the... alkaline minerals works. Yeah, and it sounds like there's so many variables going on there that it would be hard to pin down any one cause or... The aldosterone, one of my first physiological experiments was on myself when I worked in the woods. Our cook was cracked on the idea that hard physical labor meant you sweated a lot and needed to replenish your salt. And so he would put, I think it was about a tablespoon of salt in everyone's porridge in the morning. If you didn't eat your porridge, you didn't get your ham and eggs and steak. So everyone was doing it. And within a few days of doing that, I found that the sweat that dripped down my forehead was leaving. Salt crystal trails on my glasses, and my eyebrows looked like they were coated with snow from the salt crystal, and I thought of the trick of saying that I had been put on a low salt diet, so I got normal porridge from then on, and immediately I could sweat distilled water. On the high salt diet, I had to take salt pills about 11 o'clock in the morning, otherwise I started getting faint, needed to replenish the salt that was pouring out so fast. But after the low salt diet, I never needed afternoon salt pills again. You mean the overdose of salt sort of stopped your body from being able to regulate it properly? Yeah, and the, uh, when you're... cutting back on the sodium, one of the first reactions is that your aldosterone is increased. And aldosterone lets you retain the sodium, but it does it at the expense of losing some potassium and magnesium. So if your diet is high in calcium and magnesium and... potassium, then there isn't any problem with the low sodium intake, but chronically that high aldosterone has a pro-inflammatory effect and so chronically getting more of all of the alkaline minerals than you really need is a safety precaution that will suppress your aldosterone. And protect your heart from inflammation and fibrosis and hypertension and so on. So in the long run, sodium has this protection against cell swelling, inflammation, fibrosis, inflammation. And if taken in reasonable amounts, it tastes good too. What about can salt ingestion trigger migraines in some predisposed people? When you're already on a low salt diet and take salt, one of the common physiology experiments is to have people drink a quart of plain water or a quart of plain water with a heaping. What's the difference between a high salt diet and a low salt diet? A teaspoon of salt added to it and at the end of the physiology lab, everyone who got the unsalted quart of water would have formed about a quart of urine and the ones that got the salt didn't have any extra forming. It took usually a couple of days for that excess water to come out. So when you take a sudden dose of salt, you're going to have a lot of salt in your urine. It makes you swell up and retain water until your aldosterone has adjusted downward. I see. So it just takes a while to adjust to it. Yeah, and you'll notice anything that is susceptible will swell up. Your fingers and toes and lips and eyelids and such might swell up in the first day after you've eaten a lot of salt. But people who... For example, on a long airplane trip would always get swollen feet. If they ingested two or three days in advance by eating extra salt on some baking soda, they didn't get those swollen feet from sitting still anymore. No, you're suppressing the aldosterone so it gets the water out of you. One of the ways sodium works is that the albumin molecule is full of negative charges and it holds the sodium in association. So you get a cloud of positive and negative charges. It holds on the water, it keeps the water osmotically held in your bloodstream. If you're low in either albumin or sodium, your blood itself loses the osmotic quality and so the water stays in your cells and extravascular spaces. So you get a cloud of positive and negative charges. A combination of albumin and sodium is present in the blood. Water flows out of the tissues into the blood and the blood passing through the kidneys then can get rid of the water that otherwise would sit around in your tissues and that same situation impairs circulation because your blood volume is low and the fluid volume. Outside the blood vessels is is too high. Oh, I see you right and the the anti-diuretic Hormone it is a another side of this that is a lot more complicated than and response to distress estrogen and and a lot of other things where the Aldosterone is pretty closely related to the mineral balance and And what is the anti-diuretic hormones that what are you calling? What is that? It's a pituitary hormone that causes water retention with sodium loss and a low thyroid person. Old people, people after accidents, anyone in serious stress, they call it inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic hormone syndrome. And that's very common where edema is what is really harmful. The brain swells up, for example, because the body has too much water and not enough salt and the remedy for that is just adding sodium but that's not fundamental and if you do it too fast you disturb the balance in the different compartments. But the basic reason for it is that you aren't producing the carbon dioxide from the thyroid deficiency and the absence of the high production of carbon dioxide means that you aren't able to retain the sodium in your kidneys as the water passes through. So the low thyroid person loses sodium because of the reverse of the process. It happens in other cells. In the kidneys, carbon dioxide allows the cells to catch and retain sodium. Anything you want to say to sum up about staying healthy and keeping your oxidation working well? We have about two minutes. Oh, just keeping stress down and the fun up. Judging food largely by how it tastes rather than by what the experts say. Okay, well that's easy advice to follow. On that note, Ray, I really want to thank you for coming on these last two shows and and I'll tell people how to get in touch with your website if they want to read more and I'll say goodbye. Okay. All right. Thank you so much. Thank you so much, Ray. Bye-bye.