73-7940

PEAT, Raymond Franklin, 1936-

AGE-RELATED OXIDATIVE CHANGES IN THE HAMSTER
UTERUS.

University of Oregon, Ph.D., 1972
Biology’

t
f
i
iH
}
\
5

ee

Habe erent ge ees ee eT er ee en eee

2

THIS DISSERTATION HAS BEEN MICROFILMED EXACTLY AS RECEIVED.

,
oe

University Microfilms, A XEROX Company _ Ann Arbor, Michigan 3

Nt mete rite latte Me 8
INFORMATION TO USERS

This dissertation was produced from a microfilm copy of the original document.
While the most advanced technological means to photograph and reproduce this
document have been used, the quality is heavily dependent upon the quality of
the origina! submitted.

The following explanation of techniques is provided to help you understand
markings or patterns which may appear on this reproduction.

1.

The sign or “target” for pages apparently lacking from the document
photographed is ‘Missing Page(s)”. If it was possible to obtain the
missing page(s) or section, they are spliced into the film along with
adjacent pages, This may have necessitated cutting thru an image and
duplicating adjacent pages to insure you complete continuity.

When an image on the film is obliterated with a farge round black
mark, it is an indication that the photographer suspected that the
copy may have moved during exposure and thus cause a blurred
image. You will find a good image of the page in the adjacent frame.

When a map, drawing or chart, etc., was part of the material being
photographed the photographer followed a definite method in
“sectioning” the material. It is customary to begin photoing at the
upper left hand corner of a large sheet and to continue photoing from
left to right in equal sections with a small overlap, if necessary,
sectioning is continued again ~— beginning below the first row and
continuing on‘until complete.

The majority of users indicate that the textual content is of greatest
value, however, a somewhat higher quality reproduction could be
made from “photographs” if essential to the understanding of the
dissertation. Silver prints of “photographs” may be ordered at
additional charge by writing the Order Department, giving the catalog
number, title, author and specific pages you wish reproduced.

University Microfilms

300 North Zeab Road
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106

A Xerox Education Company
AGR*RELATED OXIDATIVE CHANGES IN THE HAMSTER UTERUS

by

RAYMOND FRANKLIN PEAT

A DISSERTATION

Presented to the Department of Biology
and the Graduate School of the University of Oregon
in partial fulfillment ;
of the requirements for the degree o
Doctor of Philosophy

September 1972
APPROVED: Bor) din dtave os
4

Arnold L. Soderwall

ai
PLEASE NOTE:

Some pages may have
indistinct print.

Filmed as received.

University Microfilms, A Xerox Education Company
Lid

VITA

NAME OF AUTHOR: Raymond Franklin Peat
PLACE OF BIRTH: Santee, California

DATE OF BIRTH: October 12, 1936

UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE SCHOOLS ATTENDED:

Southern Oregon College

Mexico City College

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
Ohio State University

University of Oregon

DEGREES AWARDED:

Bachelor of Science, General Studies, 1956
Southern Oregon College

Master of Arts; General Studies, 1960
University of Oregon

AREAS OF SPECIAL INTEREST:

Surfaces 7
Biological Bases of Intelligence and Language
Gerontology

Hormones and Reproduction

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Instructor Biology and Art, Urbana College, Urbana, Ohio,
1959-60

instructor, Emerson College, Monterey, California, 1960

Director, Blake College, Eugene, Oregon, 1961-present
Profesor de Lenguaje, Universidad Autonoma del Estado de
Mexico, Toluca, Mexico, 1963-65

Instructor, Linguistics, Montana State University, Bozeman,
- 1965-66

Graduate Teaching Assistant, Department of Biology, University
of Oregon, Eugene, 1970

Graduate Teaching Assistant, Research, Department of ‘Biology,
University of Oregon, Eugene, 1971-72
PUBLICATIONS:

Cold~Inactivated Enzymes as Metabolic Controls, Physiol.
Chem. Phys. 3(4): 401, 1971

Estrogen Activated Pathway Changes and Cold-Inact ivated
Enzymes, In.Press, Physiol. Chem. Phys., 1972

iv
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page
INTRODUCTION 1
(Relevant aspects of aging theory, ;
especially regarding metabolic changes
related to sex hormones)
Sex and Aging 1
Physiological Theories of Aging 3
Relations of the Senescent Physiology to
Other Physiological Processes 12
The Estrogenic State 27
The Problem of Senescent Sterility and Oxygen
Wastage as its Immediate Cause , 37
METHODS AND MATERIALS 42
Animals 42
Oxygen Consumption 43
Luminal Oxygen Tension 44
Triphenyl Tetrazolium Chloride Reduction 44
Enzymes 45
' Assays 47
Uterine Weight, Water Content, and Diameter 48
Vitamin E Treatment 48
NMR Spin Echo 48
Inspection of Harderian Glands ’ 49
Uterine Age Pigment Extraction 49
Statistics 49
RESULTS 50
Oxygen Consumption 50
Luminal Oxygen Tension 50
Triphenyl Tetrazolium Chloride Reduction 52
Uterine Weight 53
Estrogen Assays 53
Age Pigment . 55
Harderian Fluorescence 58

NUR Spin Echo 58
Table of Contents (Continued)

Page
DISCUSSION 59
The Paradigm Problem 59
The Senescent State cee . 63
Enzymes “ 64
Oxygen Consumption cio 73
Oxygen Tension 76
Triphenyl Tetrazolium Chloride Reduction _ 80
Age Pigment 82
NMR , , 83
Harderian Fluorescence 85
Uterine Weight, Water Content, and Thickness . 86
An Organismic Change 88
CONCLUSION 7 mo, - 90

REFERENCES ) oO 92
INTRODUCTION

Sex and Aping

Theories of aging are historically closely associated with
. ideas about sexuality, and it is only in the twentieth century
that the two have been habitually separated. The earliest
tradition that was explicitly concerned with the nature of aging
ie that of the Taoist culture of China.

In China, experimental science was generally closely related
‘ to the Taoists' concept of natural balance and their desire for
long life or immortality of the body. Deterioration of the body
with age was considered to result from the imbalance of various
factors, including masculinity and femininity, and attempts were
made to find techniques or materials to cure disease, impotence,
sterility, and aging itself. Ko Hung (a Taoist experimentalist)
believed in the early fourth century A.D. thet plant drugs would
prolong life, and a compound of minerals and metals would give
iamortality. While other Taoists experimented on criminals,
Ko Hung used plants and animals to study aging (Needham, 1956).
Ginseng, which is rich in water soluble “anabolic" steroids
(Bykhovtsova, 1970; Claus, Tyler, and Brady, 1970) is the best

known of the Chinese herbs used for prolonging sexual vigor and
()

Lengthening the life span. Recent studies indicate that ginseng

promotes resistance to disease and stress, and increases the life

-epan of rats (Yudkin, 1970; Grinevich and Brekhman, 1970).

Eventually, in the Middle Ages, sophisticated methods were developed
for extracting highly purified steroids from human urine, and

these were used in treating senescence (Needham and Lu Gwei-Djen,
1968)..

In the late nineteenth century, Brown=Sequard in France believed
that testicular extracts could restore sexual, physical and mental
vigor to old men. At the time of his announcement he was ridiculed
and said to be deluded (Steinach, 1940). Up to the present time
his claim is not generally accepted (Turner, 1966; Connors, 1969)
because of the supposed insolubility of androgens in water, though
testosterone is routinely used for postponing some of the symptoms
of senescence in men. However, Brown-Sequard's claim seems reasonable
enough, considering the abundance of fatty acids, lipo-proteins, and
soluble simple proteins in the testes that would be able to make
steroids soluble in water. Even the slightly polar nature of
the androgens themselves (their hydroxyl and carbonyl groups) gives
them a certain small degree of solubility in water.

The gonadal theory of aging (i.e., that degeneration of the
gonads precedes and causes the degeneration of all other organs:
Steinach, 1940) was generally discarded by 1940, but by the seme
time it was widely accepted that aging does involve changes in

hormone controlled processes, and that hormonal insufficiency
or imbalance is likely to be intimately involved with senescence.
Increasing biochemical sophistication was leading most investigators
to look for subtler or more basic processes as the primary cause |
of aging. Gonadal degeneration is now more modestly considered

to be one of many changes that occur as a result of a more basic
process of aging, but its importance as a possible immediate cause
of senescent sterility in the female is the subject of current

investigations, which will be discussed below.

Physiological Theories of Aging

Two other 19th century ideas have remained viable, in modified
form, up to the present. E. Metchnikof (1908) proposed that the
basic cause of aging was connective tissue degeneration; the current
version of the theory, viz., that aging results from molecular
changes in collagen and structural changes in connective tissue,
is now widely held, and fits the evidence well, He also (1908)
believed that toxins from putrefaction in the intestine caused
aging, and cited correlations between short intestines and long
life spans. It has recently been suggested that polyamines, CB,»
putrescine, with histamine-like effects, may be absorbed from the
intestine and provoke reactions of an allergic type. Korenchevsky
(1961) has discussed more recent versions of the “auto-intoxication"
theory. Toxins of various types are known to induce auto-imaune

reactions (Nikolayev, et al., 1970), which have been implicated in
certain degenerative diseases and are believed by some to be a
cause of aging, that is, the primary event in aging {fs presumed

to be the appearance of antibody producing cells incapable of
distinguishing self from other. Virus and diet have been
-dnmplicated in auto-immune disease in NZB mice (Fernandes, et al.,
1972). As @ general cause of aging the auto-immune process would
seem to be only a special case of somatic mutation, and A. Comfort
_ (1969) has convincingly argued, in relation to Curtis's defense of
the somatic mutation theory of aging, that somatic mutations are
normally not numerous enough to account for aging, and that a cause
prior to the mutations must be sought. What at first seemed to

be a cause of aging turns out to be an effect of aging. D. G. Carpenter
and J, A. Loynd (1968) similarly criticize the somatic mutation
theory on the basis of the number of mutations that occur, but add
that it fails to explain the effect of diet, and the changes that
uniformly appear with age. P. Alexander and D. I. Connell (1963)
‘have shown that the powerful mutagen ethyl methane sulphonate had
no effect on the lifeespan of mice, in spite of causing more mutations
than X-ray ‘treatments which did shorten the life-span of mice, and
conclude "that a nonegenetic cause must be sought for the reduction
. O£ Life expectancy which occurs in CBA mice after large doses of
X-rays..." Although R, H. Mole (1963) has claimed that there is
"oq additive or synergistic effect of whole body irradiation by
fast neutrons and natural aging," this does not apply to other

forms of radiation, and some data will be aentioned below that show
a synergism between X-irradiation and dehydration in producing

‘mutations and cell death. It is.also interesting to note that

Brachet (Bell, 1972) produced chromosomal abnormalities in amphibian
eggs by merely heating the cortex. The evidence generally favors
the idea that both aging and chromosome damage are physiologically
caused, rather than the idea of Curtis and others that aging is
produced by random somatic chromosomal mutations (Strehler, 1967).
The concept of accumulation of toxic material with age has the
advantage of appearing to be a simple physical process that correlates
very well with age (Dubina, 1970) and that could reasonably be
expected to cause some of the functional changes associated with
age, but again the process of metabolic detoxication, which can
be assumed on the basis of various lines of evidence to decline with
age, could account for the accumulation of toxic metals (Selye, 1967)
and other materials with age. This criticism, however, ts not as
convincing as similar exiticisms of other theories because of
the peculiar vulnerability of the primary organ of detoxication,
the liver, to toxins (Song and Kappas, 1968; Biskind, 1946).
A very obvious positive feedback system must be involved, but the
appropriateness of the feedback concept to a process of Lifelong
aging hasn't been demonstrated, and regenerative and higher control
processes would add further complications. The capacity of heavy
metals to act as catalytic centers, modifying the nature of the
collagen system, suggests an overlap of the collagen. and toxin

theories of aging. The inactivation of enzymes by certain metals
(e.g., silver, mercury, arsenic) suggests that this theory would
also have a degree of similarity to some of the somatic mutation
and cybernetic theories of aging.

The theory of somatic mutations, resulting from background
radiation or other random processes that would place the mutation
as the first event in aging, is probably inadequate, as mentioned
above, but there is evidence of some kind of physical change--

possibly crosslinking--in at least some kinds of DNA, which increases

with age (Hahn and Fritz, 1966). Increased melting temperature of

DNA has been offered as evidence of a physical change assumed to
involve inactivation of genes, but it is known that the melting
temperature of another nucleic acid, transfer RNA, is very sensitive
to ion concentration (Millar and Byrne, 1967). It might be that
altered counter-ions are responsible for the observed change in
DNA with age. It is known that general tissue concentrations and
ratios of ions change with age (Kohn, 1971) and it seems that at
least some of the change is intracellular (Friedman et al., 1965).
Repetition of these experiments with purified DNA might settle this
question. )

An idea that used to be generally believed and that is stiil
frequent ly encountered is that the nucleus is the center of all
control processes in the cell and that therefore a change of cell
function requires a loss of some kind in the information stored in
the nucleus; an extreme form of the idea was the doctrine that only

the germ line possessed a full complement of genes, and that somat ic
7

differentiation occurred by selective loss of information. Gurdon's
(1962) transplanting of nuclei from differentiated gut epithelium

into enucleated egg cytoplasm was a clear refutation of that doctrine,
since the nuclei allowed development into a late embryo. Although
discredited for most organisms, the idea has given moral support to

at least two theories of aging, viz; somatic mutations and Hayflick's
idea (descended from Weismann's) of germ immortality - somatic mor-
tality. Vegetative reproduction in plants is an obvious exception to
Hayflick's principle of somatic cells being limited to a small number
of divisions, Hayflick attempted to discount changes of the culture
medium and "time" as factors inhibiting mitosis after a certain

number of divisions, but time was measured with the cultures in the
frozen state, which suggests that he has a strange conception of how
time affects chemical and biological reactions. His demonstration that
the medium didn't become progressively inhibitory was simply to put new
fetal cells into a culture of cells that had stopped dividing, and show
that they were able to divide. Strehler (1967) has shown that the
number of divisions depends on the dilution factor, What Hayflick
argues for is some kind of internal clock, designed to stop after a
certain number of divisions, independent to a high degree of its
environment. This internal clock concept is still held by some
theorists to account for control of growth and differentiation, in
opposition to the concept that cells differentiate in response to a
series of inductive and inhibitory influences, which varies with time
and their position in the organism. It has been demonstrated in

Strehler's laboratory (1967) that physical restraint (an agar film)
o

that prevented aitosis allowed some kind of aging process to occur,
in either the cell or the medium. Strehler (1967). also demonstrated,
by Labeling stem cells in skin, a capacity for division that is
apparently unlimited, or at least is on the order of 100 times

greater than the number set by Hayflick as a limit. Skin (Krohn,

1966) and mammary gland (Daniel et al., 1968; Daniel, 1971;

‘Daniel and Young, 1971) transplant experiments have been used to

argue for or against the idea of somatic cell mortality resulting
from a fixed number of mitoses, but the arguments have been
inconclusive in both cases, . (Apparently. it is general ly tacitly
assumed that transformed malignant cells are no longer somatic cells.)

Hayflick's inhibition could be the result of either the presence or

‘the absence of a chemical substance, or a physical factor, such as

might be involved in Auerbach's discovery of reprogramming of

lymphocytes by contact with other cells.. Failure to consider the

‘dilution factor is an important weakness in Hayflick's theory,

just as it was in the (clonal selection theory) experiments.
eriticized by Auerbach (1970).

Deniel et a1. used mammary transplants in mice to argue for
Hayflick's theory, but their assumption that immune reactions are
not involved is. not beyond question, and the experiments really
just show that a tissue can outlive an organism. The purpose of
the experiment was to study aging as it relates to an organism,
but the survival of the tissue for several generations shows that

the process involved in its eventual death is not likely to be
relevant to aging in the normal Life span. They found, in fact,
that the age of the tissue donor did not affect the lifespan of
the transplants. The real significance of the experiment is to
weaken the theory of programmed cell death as a factor determining
the lifespan of an organism. The absence of an effect of donor
age tends to support Kohn's belief that intracellular changes are not
the most important factor in aging. More recently, Daniel et, al.
(1971) -reinterpreted the results as showing only that the tissue
“gradually loses its capacity to respond by proliferating to a
hormonal stimulus that is relatively constant and which continues
over a long period of time."

The inhibitory property of serum from old animals (Kohn, 1971)
possibly relates to Hayflick's results, but it is very interesting
from several other points of view. For exemple, it has been
proposed (Comfort, 1964) that the cell loss which is typical of
aging is the result of inhibition of mitosis by chalones and
edrenalin. According to Bullough (1971) both aging and cancer
result when inhibition is lost, and stress, by maintaining high
levels of adrenalin, can prolong life. Delayed regeneration in old
animala might relate to a high level of chalones. Adrenalin
concentration may be elevated in old age, and sensitivity to exogenous
adrenalin increases with age (Strehler, 19675 Frolkis et al.,

1970) which is consistent with a high basal level, and with the

concept of increased mitotic inhibition with age.
10

D. G. Carpenter (Carpenter and Loynd, 1968), a nuclear weapons
engineer engaged in systems analysis of space weapons, has proposed
an integrated theory, which consists in saying that many partially
true theories of aging when taken together are more completely true.
Regardless of his conclusions, hig interest in feedback and ampli-
£ication @8 part of an orgonism's control system is probably valid.

Sacher (1959) has proposed that the brain is the control
system most relevant to aging, end the idea of neurone loss with
aging is so popular that one of the most frequently repeated
remarks about one's body concerns the supposed daily loss of
100,000 brain cells. ‘The suggestion has even been made that the loss
is so selective that it could be the bagis for memory (Dawkins, 1971).

Regardless of the idea's popularity and its good foundation in

sone insects, it certainly is not unchallenged (Comfort, 1964).

Even the concept of age-related decline of mental function (e.g.,
the limit of learned reaction time or nonsense memorization) hes been

challenged by experiments using populations with equivalent

. occupations or an opportunity for relearning (Murrell, 1969).

Analogous to the supposed decline in mental function with age (as
distinct from disease) is Terman's observation that bright females
suffer a severe loss of mentality at the age of 23, with the shift
of occupation from student to housewife. The critics of the concept
of brain loss with age sometimes clain that the brain is one of the
most durable populations of cells, and that the "horizontal"

averages of brain quality include a majority of diseased individuals,
11

that obscures ‘the lack of effect of mere aging (Pfeiffer et al.,

1968), However, this controversy is not necessarily essential

to. Sacher's idea of the brain as the most important control system

in aging. Sacher's observation is that mass of brain correlates

very well with Length of life (1959). His belief is that the brain

maintains biological equilibrium, and that with accumulated damage

to the brain as a control system (whatever its natoce) the organism

would become increasingly unstable and die. )
Sacher‘s correlation of brain size with length of life ("it's an

advantage to have a brain, and a disadvantage to have a body ")

recalls G. W. Grile's (1941) discovery of a close correlation between

brain size and total metabolic activity (oxygen consumption per

hour per animal) both between and within species. Crile's )

observation accounts in an odd way for the old approximate “two-thirds

power" (actually 0.7 to 0.8 for most species) rule for increase

of metabolic activity with increased body weight within a species

(Florey, 1966), because this is approximately the proportion in

which brain size increases with body weight (Lilly, 1963). The

well-known actuarial data that show that short people Live

longer than tall ones might be relevant to this question, because

of their proportionately larger brain size; the same would apply

to the greater longevity of women. Energy production has been

proposed as a crucial factor in life-span (Hershey, 1970;

Calloway, 1971a).
12

Palladin (1964) has made a possibly related observation con-
cerning “evolutionary level" (which in this case corresponded to
brain size) and efficiency of oxidative phosphorylation. The
efficiency of coupling was found to increase with higher
evolutionary level, as well as with alertness. This observation
suggests an interesting secondary factor to consider in relation
to "rate of living" and Sacher's idea~-the reason for Sacher's
correlation might be metabolic efficiency, i.e., a less wasteful
use of oxygen, possibly even a less destructive use of it.

The free-radical theory of aging has become very popular
recently, probably partly as a result of radiation studies and
Partly because of the observation (Harman, 1968; Kohn, 1971) thet
antioxidants such as BHT added to the diet of mice increased their
lifespan by several percent. It has been pointed out by other
investigators that the mice ate less of the diet, probably because
of the smell of the antioxidant, and that the restricted food intake
alone could account for the increased life span (Comfort, 1972),

Restricted intake of calories has recently been found to slow

the aging of collagen in rats (Everitt, 1971).

Relations of the Senescent Physiology to
Other Physiological Processes

Other studies (Lee et al., 1952; Visscher et al., 1952)

have shown that limitation of caloric and protein int ake lengthens
13

the life span of mice, delays development of cancer in a susceptible
strain, suppresses estrus and delays onset of both reproductive
maturity and reproductive senescence. These observations will be
discussed further below.

Smith and Soderwall's (1962) finding that supplementing the diet
with vitamin E delayed reproductive senescence in hamsters, and
similar observations in rats tempt one in this context to suggest
that excess free radicals from an overactive metabolism are the |
agent of alteration in the collagen, which in turn leads to acceler«
ated functional senescence. However, several problems exist for
this interpretation, for example the relation between suppression
or acceleration of sexual maturity and the onset of senescence,
and also the idea that excess calories will necessarily increase )
the production of free radicals, which has not been established.

The literature regarding free radical concentrations in living
tissue is still in an early stage, as a result of the lack until
recently of equipment that could measure EPR in the presence of
water. This interpretation also fails to explain the observation
that the amount of vitamin E required to maintain fertility
increases steadily and drastically with age, being at 59 weeks

67 times the amount required by the 10 week old rat. Verzar and
Ermini's (1970) observation of poor creatine phosphate recovery in
old animals is interesting in connection with the creatinuria and
low tissue creatine levels in vitamin E defictency (Houchin, 1942)

and the restoration of creatine kinase activity by vitamin E
14

administration (Matusis, 1971) and the fact that X-irradiation also
produces creat inuria (Kozaika and Andrew, 1972).

Besides the functional complementarity of aging and vitamin E
deficiency, there is an interesting similarity in their ability to
produce lipofuscin, "aging pigment", ox ceroid pigment, (Kaunitz, et al.,
1948). This pigment has been widely discussed as an example of

intracellular crosslinking, and is assumed to be a "clinker," or

Product of metabolism that the cell is incapable of removing

(Carpenter and Loynd, 1968). Florey (1966) has referred to the
existence of this material in carp which are accustomed to Living
under ice at low oxygen tension and suggests that it may serve as an
alternate electron acceptor in the absence of oxygen. (It is supposed

that unsaturated fatty acids can serve as electron acceptor in yeast

‘cells in the absence of oxygen (Warburg, et al., 1967).) Regardless

of the accuracy of this guess concerning its function, Florey's
observation at least points out the feature that is common to the
various situations in which it appears: fetal liver (Goldfisher and
Bernstein, 1969) has relatively low oxygen tension, and the disappear~
ance of the pigment from the liver following birth would correspond to
increased oxygen tension; aged cells are increasingly embedded in
collagen, and probably experience reduced oxygen tension (Casarett,
1963); in vitamin E deficiency, there is extremely high oxygen consump~

tion, which would tend to lower oxygen tension, and the pigment appears

as @ result of vitamin E deficiency (Kaunitz, et al., 1948). .

That the intracellular oxygen tension is lowered by the high rate
15

of consumption associated with this deficiency is implied by the
fact that muscular dystrophy can be induced in various experimental
animals as a result of a vitamin E deficiency, and it has been

- demonstrated that raising dystrophic chicks in a high oxygen
atmosphere suppresses development of the disease; similarly,
restricted blood circulation also produces the disease, the most
reasonable conclusion apparently being that low oxygen tension
produces muscular distrophy, and a vitamin E deficiency "wastes"!
" oxygen at a sufficient rate that oxygen tension is lowered in the
tissue. Additional vitamin E allows animals to survive hypoxic
conditions in a higher percentage than animals fed a normal or
deficient diet (Telfer, 1954).

Bjorkerud (1963, 1964) has determined that there is NADH oxidase
activity associated with the age pigment. NADH oxidase is, by
consuming NADH, able to release one of the potential controls over.
fermentation (Racker, 1972) and, at the same time, can potentially
“reduce a large amount of the oxygen that enters the cell. Bjorkerud's
observation would seem entirely consonant with the data concerning
possibly impaired mitochondrial function in old age (Shikla and
Kanungo, 1970) and the observations of Shock (1963) of undiminished
oxygen consumption with age (in relation to active cell volume).
This enzyme function should be elevated in vitamin E deficiency if
the same system is really active in both cases. A microsomal NADPH
oxidase is known to increase its oxygen consumption greatly in the

absence of vitamin E, and in vitro pO, is rate limiting
16

in the peroxidative conversion of polyunsaturated fatty acids
to a dialdehyde by this enzyme. Estrogen is known to induce an

NADH oxidase. It has frequently been observed that many cells in

‘the senescent hamster uterus are filled with pigment granules

(Orsini, 1962). These granules apparently require estrogen and the

absence of supplemental vitamin E if they are to form (Kaunitz,

et al., 1948), Peroxidase, which ig induced, or activated (Lucas,
‘ et al., 1955), by estrogen, and which is known to have an NADH oxidase
* £unction (Lucas et als, 1955; Beard and Hollander,’ 1962), may be

“involved. (Peroxidation is being widely studied in relation to

both aging and cancer.) Catalase is apparently suppressed by
estrogen, which suggests that peroxide, whatever its origin (it is

universally associated with respiration, but it is not known how) is

being spared for another function. In cancer, a condition similar

to what is proposed here for aging exists, with low NADH combined

. with a "reducing environment" (Reid, 1965).

The proportionality, mentioned above, between onset of sexual

maturity and age at which reproductive senescence, and even death,

occur, has been recognized as a genetic, as well as a dietary,
phenomenon by L. C. Strong (1969).

‘A well-known idea (Lansing, 1952) is that late maternal age
tends to shorten the life-span of offspring; this seems to be
in doubt even in the case of rotifers (Meadow and Barrows,
1971). (It is interesting that vitamin E happens to be necessary

for eexual reproduction even in rotifers.) There is a general
17

belief that the effect exists in mammals, too (Lansing, 1947;
Carpenter and Loynd, 1968); it is generally attributed to a higher
rate of mutations in the older animal, which results in slightly
defective offspring. Strong, Johnson, and Rimm (1963) found that
late maternal age is associated with an earlier onset of sexual
maturity in the offspring, which would be expected if the "Lansing
effect" is true for mammals and if the reduction of life-span is
associated with accelerated sexual maturity, as in the feeding
experiments. However, Strong (1969) made the seemingly paradoxical
observation that prolonged selection and inbreeding of the offspring
of the 201-300 day maternal age group produces mice with fewer deviant
traits, with fewer spontaneous cancers, and with longer life spans
than those of strains produced by younger or older maternal age
selection, and the earliest maternal age selection produced the
poorest longevity. | |

Strong has rationalized this in terms of the concept of genetic
homeostasis, which he associates with heterozygosity, as illustrated
by the greater variability in age of first litter among homozygous
than among heterozygous mice. He consideres the 201-300 day maternal
age descent to represent a genetically more stable or homeostatic
group. Many observations have been made relating the occurrence of
cancer in Strong's mice to an excess of estrogen, but the evidence for
the existence of high levels of estrogen is mostly indirect. Abnormal

levels of estrogen in the strain could explain many of the effects

. observed, through an effect in utero (or through milk), without

recourse to more complex genetic theories.
18

Blaha (personal communication, 1972) has expressed the opinion
that hamsters probably don't have elevated estrogen levels in
old age as do old rats which often have continuous estrus, in
spite of the continued existence of 17-HSD which he says suggests

the presence of estrogen (1972), but no measurements have been made

of their circulating estrogen level. He has found elevated

progesterone levels in old hamsters (1971), and proposes that it

is the cause of their "delayed parturition." High levels of

estrogen are considered to be rasponsible for the frequent

endometrial hyperplasia in rabbits and have been suggested as a

cause of the similar hyperplasia which frequently occurs in menopausal
women (Cowdry, 1952; Dove et al., 1970).

Radiation or free radicals or both are sometimes believed to
be responsible for the increased cross-linking of collagen assumed
to be involved in the progressive increase with age in the melting
temperature and melting contraction force of collagen, but it has
been found that rat tail tendons of irradiated animals do not have
the characteristics of aged rats’ tendons. Whatever life~shortening
effect irradiation has, and it does seem to mimic aging in certain
ways, it doesn't appear to act by way of accelerated cross-linking
in collagen.

B. W. Casarett (1963) proposed that radiation and other
"non-specific" injuries lead to an “increase in density and amount

of collagenous substance interstitially and in sub-endothelial
19

regions of arterioles. These changes constitute a temporal
advancement in the increase of the histohaematic barrier and in the
development of arteriolocapillary fibrosis, which are progressive
processes in ‘normal! aging. Eventually these processes cause
progressive reduction in number of dependent parenchymal cells due
to relative hypoxia and malnutrition." These ideas conform to the
known effects of radiation, and he traces in detail the idea that
both radiation and aging involve increasing isolation of the cells,
which in itself constitutes an injury.

Brooksby, Sahinin, and A. Le Soderwall (1961) have reported that
X-irradiation mimics certain features of reproductive senescence
in hamsters, for example prolonged gestation equivalent to that of
the senescent animal with 100 r whole body irradiation and, with
all exposures used (100 to 700 r whole-body), increased connective
tissue which infiltrates and thickens uterine muscles, glandular
areas, and endothelial linings.

S. 0. Brown, et al., have presented (1964) data that suggests
that chronic low levels of radiation may accelerate the onset of
reproductive maturity in rats. R. L. Brent (1964) observed some
similarities between vascular clamping and maternal irradiation
in effects on the fetus, suggesting the possibility that radiation
may act partly through an effect on circulation or oxygen tension.
Neonatal "heat" (Boling, et al., 1939) may result from hypoxia,
since no hormonal basis is apparent. Estrogen and anoxia both

improve resistence to irradiation (Katch and Edelman, 1964). °
20

Rediation mimics estrogen stimulation in several other ways:
vaginal cornification (Mandl and Zuckerman, 1956), uterine weight,
estrus behavior, response to progesterone, etc., and appears to

have its first physiological effect on respiration (Valentini and

‘Hahn, 1971; Hahn and Ward, 1969). Ingram and Mandl (1958) claim

that X-irradiated ovaries produce more estrogen than normal ones,
without pituitary intervention.

Some of the other similarities between senescence and estrogen
treatment observed in various animals are:

degree of corrugation and adhesiveness of luminal surface
(Martin et al., 1970)

mitotic response in both lumen and stroma (Finn and
Martin, 1969)

uterine weight
radiation resistance
vitamin E deficiency effect on uterine weight

vitamin E-estrogen antagonism on age pigments of uterus
and other aging symptoms (Kaunitz et al., 1948)

catalase level (Baird and Samis, 1971; Adams, 1955)
Na/K ratio of cells (Friedman, et al., 1965)

basement membrane in reproductive organs (Fredricsson,
1969; Rowlatt, 1970)

increased tube-locking of ova (Connors, 1969; Greenwald,
1959)

chronic estrus (Bloch, 1961)

levels of uterine estrogen receptor protein (Kraay and
Black, 1970; Trams, et al., 1971) ©

failure to implant, main embryo loss (Dreisbach, 1959;
Connors, 1969)
21

tetrazolium reduction
oxygen consumption
oxygen partial pressure in lumen .

Singhal and Valadares (1969) showed that very high levels of
estrogen are required to restore ovariectomized old rats to their
normal enzyme levels, which implies that high estrogen may be normal
for old animals. In their mitotic response (Finn and Martin, 1969)
to estrogen stimulation, however, old tissues showed greater |
sensitivity than did the young; residual bound estrogen might account
for this, and the time allowed after ovariectomy might have differed
in the two sets of experiments. Old animals have a similar high
sensitivity to catecholamines (Frolkis, et 2l., 1970), which also

can be interpreted as the effect of a high basal level. Catechol-
_ mines have also been associated with "oxygen wastage" (Raab, et al.,
1962).

Metabolic rate (oxygen consumption) has long been known to
decline steadily with age, although the steady state level of
thyroxin in the blood (Gregerman, 1967) does not appear to change,

but Shock et al. (1963) found that the loss of oxygen consumption
per unit of tissue weight disappears when oxygen consumption is
recalculated on a cell water basis. “That is, there is a decline
in the number or volume of active cells with age, as the mase of
inert connective tissue increases, but there is no decrease in the

rate of oxygen consumption of the remaining cells.
22

In spite of this evidence that oxygen consumption does not

" decrease generally with age, there is some evidence that mitochondria

of various tissues (e.g., Liver) lose efficiency, or decrease in
number, or both, with increasing ege (Shukla and. Kanungo, 1970;
Barrows, et gl., 1960). Considering the oxidase activity of age
pigment, it is possible that non-nitochondrial oxidation increases
as mitochondrial oxidation declines.

Loeb (1939) has found remarkable similarities between the effect
of excessive estrogen stimulation and senescence on the structure of
the rat uterus. Both cause progressive increase in collagen deposits.

Arvay et al. (1971) have shown that stress accelerates the
collagen changes of rat tail tendon and uterus, apparently act ing
through adrenal cortical hormones and estrogen.

These similarities in the effects of X-irradiation, estrogen,
and senescence, suggest another experiment which found effects of
X-irradiation and chemical carcinogens similar to those known for
estrogenic stimulation. F. Devik (1963) has used the reduction of
tetrazolium by skin cells to compare the effects of several carcino=
genic and non-carcinogenic chemicals, and X-irradiation, Non-
catcinogenic compounds caused a decreased deposition of the reduced
form of the tetrazolium on the first day, while the carcinogenic
compounds and the irradiation caused an increase, though the
X-rays caused a more persistent increase. Damage to the mitochondria

has been proposed as a common effect (Warburg, 1969; Devik, 1963),
23

but since it is generally believed that tetrazoliun reduction is

an indicator of dehydrogenase activity, all that is clearly indicated
by these. experiments is that carcinogens and radiation both activate
or induce the dehydrogenases, or make more oxidizable substrate
available. The increase is very rapid. Estrogen has very simiiar
effects (several carcinogens are known to be estrogenic in the
ovariectomized female (Turner, 1966; Needham, 1942)).

The fact that age, excess estrogen treatment, and irradiation
all stimulate excessive collagen deposition, are sometimes associated
with cancer development, can cause increased tetrazolium reduction,
and produce similar effects on pregnancy, suggests that a new
interpretation of the collagen theory of aging might be desirable.
The enzyme syetem which synthesizes vitamin C, which is important
in the development of collagen, loses activity with age, is inactivated
by lipid peroxides and preserved by adding vitamin E, and also
appears to be suppressed by estrogen (Patnaik, 1971; Chatterjee
and McKee, 1965).

The failure of X-irradiation to increase cross-linking in
collagen tends to weaken the free-radical theory of aging, and the
mutation theory cannot explain satisfactorily either the generalized
exyoss~linking or the generalized deposition of collagen. A common
event, such as a metabolic pathway change, or a general interference
with enzyme control systems, seems to be a more suitable alternative

locus for the aging process, and it would seem especially suitable
—)

24

i4f it were such as could be: simply implicated in a self-stimulating

. (positive feedback) loop, tending to prevent reversal. For example,

collagen accumulation could increase collagen synthesis or block
its degradation. Casarett's scheme was of this kind, but he
relied on the mere assumption that a non-specific injury would Lead

to increased density and amount of collagenous substance. What is

Jacking is information regarding the control of collagen synthesis,

that could relate with each other the many specific stimuli that

are known to accelerate collagen formation. Chvapil et ak. (1970)

found that in granuloma and in some organs in rats,. prolonged

hypoxia stimulates collagen synthesis and inhibits the synthesis

of. noncollagen protein, and enhances mitosis in fibrogenic cells.

Hypoxia seems a likely common factor for the various non-specific
injuries and provides a very simple positive feedback system,

A view of ionizing radiation's biological effects presented
by Webb (1965) offers a radically different kind of action that
would be at: least potentially applicable to the intracellular control
theory of aging proposed. by Comfort and others (Comfort, 1969).
Several Russian laboratories have proposed a similar mechanism to
explain the biological activity of relatively low energy microwaves
(Sharp and Paperiello, 1971). Webb found that, in bacteria, both

the lethality and the mutagenicity of X-irradiation depended on

“the relative humidity of the atmosphere in which the experiments

were performed, when the bacteria were suspended in an aerosol.
25

He showed that partial dehydration increased the bacteria's suscepti-
bility to both effects. Various chemicals, such as inositol, that
are known to protect proteins, cells, and organises (Troshin, 1966)
from destruction by various agents, were able to offset the effects
of dehydration. Webb interpreted this effect in terms of the
‘supposed ability of the molecules’ hydroxyl groups to stabilize
bound water which im turn would stabilize macromolecules, or larger
structures such as membranes. A mechanism by which the pathway
changes induced by estrogen, radiation, anoxia, and aging might
Tesult from a more or less direct action on intracellular water
has been discussed elsewhere (Peat and Soderwall, 1971, 1972).
Alteration of the solvent properties of cell water could have
very far reaching effects on the function of an organism (Atkinson,
1971). .
One of the few factors, if not the only one, that shows a
universal correlation with age, even before a many~celled stage
is reached, is the concentration of water (Needham, 1964).
Calloway (197la, 1971b; Calloway and Kujak, 1966) has, from an
anelysis of the literature, shown that the water content of all
organisms fits the same exponential curve on an absolute time
scale. Thus, the tissues of a 24 month old rat contain roughly
_the same percentage of water as the tissues of a 16 month old
human baby (both being about the same age from conception).
Intracellular ratios of sodium to potassium tend to increase

with old age (Friedman, et al., 1967). However, the opposite occurs
26

during early development, approximately parallel to the decline

. dn water concentration (Hazelwood, 1971). I£ Hazelwood (1972)

and Wiggins (1970) and Szent-Gyorgyi (Baird et al., 1957) are

correct in their theory of the control of the salt ratio, then one
must assume that the intra-cellular water concentration, as opposed
to the total organismic water concentration, would increase with age.
This would be compatible with the known increase of mass and com=
pactness of collagenous tissue with aga, and with the data on the
decrease of extracellular body water (thiocyanate diffusion space)
with age (Kohn, 1971).

| The conventional methods of measuring extracellular space have
been criticized as over-estimating the true volume, at least in

certain cases (Ling and Kromash, 1967). Whole organ concentrations

ef calcium, sodium, and chloride (Kohn, 1971) increase with age,

and there are decreases in potassium, magnesium, and phosphate;

Kohn interprets these changes as reflecting increasing extracellular
apace and decreasing cell volume, which accords with the microscopic
picture, but there is also the likelihood (Friedman, 1967) chat
ehifts of the same nature occur in the cell water itself.

If it is true that the intracellular water concentration is

| increased with age, it represents another feature of similarity

among old cells, cancer cells, and estrogen stimulated tissue,
since the others are already known to have a high water concentration

(Hazelwood, 1971; Damadian, 1971).

aM
27

The "Estrogenic™ State

According to Pincus and Kirsch (1935) excess estrogen in vivo
kills rabbit embryos at the blastocyst stage, but does not interfere
with cleavage. Epinephrine prevents implantation in the rabbit,
and hypoxia has been suggested as the cause (Auletta, 1971). The
few measurements that have been made suggest that the increase of
po, in early pregnancy is delayed or inadequate in the senescent
hamster, but since abnormally low po, has been established in the
cyclic senescent hamster, no special failure of a control system
need be invoked to explain the difference at the time of implantation.
These results suggest that it would be desirable to follow pO,
levels throughout pregnancy, and especially at the time Thorneycroft
and Soderwall (1969) observed increased resorption of embryos.
Schultz (1967) has observed metabolic changes in old rats at day
12 during the period when resorption of embryos by old mothers
occurred, which he interpreted as a shift toward estrogen dominance.
Reduced sensitivity to deciduoma induction in rats has been attributed
to high endogenous estrogen levels (Horikoshi and Wiest, 1971),
and Schultz has also proposed high estrogen levels as the cause
of low fertility in rats selected for small body size (1968) or
high uterine metabolism (1965, 1966).

The literature provides many kinds of evidence supporting
this interpretation, in spite of the popularity of the idea of
estrogen insufficiency and, in humans and sometimes in experimental

animals, of "estrogen replacement therapy" for menopause. The
28

concept of such therapy has been challenged, but probably the

strongest reasons for holding the belief in estrogen insufficiency

are a) elevated gonadotropins in senescence, b) decreased urinary
estrogen excretion, and c) reduction, in some species, of the

number of active follicles. In hamsters, the last reason is not
relevant, since the number of follicles is normal (though the number
of corpora lutea may be reduced (Thorneycroft and Soderwall, 1969b),

but Steinach's (1940) view might be relevant for some species, viz.,

that interstitial cells multiply and increase hormone production

whenever the germ celis are destroyed, e.g., by heat or radiation |
(Kennedy, 1970; Grindelund and Folk, 1962). Brooksby, Sahinin, and

Soderwall's (1964) study of the effects of X-irradiation on hamster

‘ovaries is consistent with this idea. Thung and Hollander (1967)

hhave expressed a similar view: "In the ovary, the declining number

of follicles is matched by the gradual evolution of proliferative
cell QLOUPS. voc These hyperplastic changes in senile ovaries are
found in various species, but have been studied extensively in
mice..." Some of the cells ",...look very similar to the
oestrogen-producing interstitial cells of the ovary. Actually,
the occurrence of these cells in old ovaries is found to correlate
with signs of increased cestrogenic stimulation."

The other reasons given as support for the idea of eatrogen
insufficiency are subject to various interpretations. The evidence
in support of the ovary~pituitary feedback system, existence of which

is the assumption behind the argument that elevated gonadotrophins
29

imply ovarian and estrogenic insufficiency, has been reviewed

(orth, 1967) and it was concluded that the evidence is fragmentary
and weak. | However, accepting the existence of such a control system
at certain times, there is evidence suggesting that it may be
inoperative in senescence, that is, that adrenal estrogens (Vinson
and Jones, 1964) or ovarian estrogens (Mestwerdt, et al., 1972) may
be overproduced in senescence, or adrenal estrogens may be over- |
produced when ovaries are removed (Diczfalusy, et al., 1964).

Pineal involvement has been suggested as a factor in prolonged
estrus in old rats (Meyer, et al., 1961). Aschheim-(1964) suggests
that the hypothalamus loses sensitivity to circulating steroids in
senescence, which would be consistent with the effect of a vitamin
E deficiency on nerve tissue, and possibly with the observation of
Pan, et al. (1949), that pituitary extracts of vitamin E deficient
rats caused greater gonadal stimulation in rats on a normal diet,
than did extracts from rats on a normal diet. Drummond, et al.
(1939) made similar observations. Orsini and Schwartz (1966)

found that senescence apparently involves failure to release LH

from the pituitary. Vitamin E has been considered to be anti-estro-
genic (Shute, 1940; Evans and Burr, 1927a, 1927b, 1927c, 1928), as
have various B vitamins (Biskind, 1949) and vitamin A, possibly

by an effect on the liver. Since the amount of vitamin E needed

to prevent symptoms of a deficiency increases greatly with age
(Fuhr, et al., 1944; Emerson and Evans, 1940; Ames and Ludwig, 1964),

most animals on a normal diet eventually show some signs of a
30

vitamin E deficiency. Since kidney resorption of the glucuronide
of estrogens appears to be about zero (based on ratios of serum

urinary estrogen conjugates in pregnancy), a small decrease in liver

_ (or kidney, or other conjugating tissue) activity would tend to

produce great increases in the amounts of unconjugated estrogens
retained in the body. These estrogens would be almost entirely
bound to proteins and lipids, but the equilibria of protein-estrogen
binding are such that almost all of the body's unconjugated estrogens
would be bound in the uterus, with smaller amounts in the vagina

and memmaxy glands. Therefore, decrease of urinary conjugated
estrogens (Poortman, et al., 1971) may directly reflect an increase
of tissue-bound estrogens. Estrogen induces the estrogen binding
protein (Kraay and Black, 1970), and post~menopausal women probably
have a higher concentration of the binding protein than. younger
women (McGuire, et al., 1972; Trams, et al., 1971). Post-menopausal
bleeding in women, often assumed to result from estrogen insuffic-
tency, has been found to be associated with increased estrogen
activity (Frampton, 1966). However, irritation, such as an intra-
uterine object causes, is also known to increase estrogen binding
and uterine weight (Labhsetwar and Perser, 1972). Other estrogen-
like effects of intrauterine irritation include Luteolysis
(Chatterjee, et al., 1971), increased oxygen uptake (Kar, et ale,
1965, 1966), increased alkaline and acid phosphatase (Karkun, et al.,

1969), and uterine weight (Malajiya, et al., 1970).
31

It is now generally accepted that senile estrus in rats
(Meyer, et al., 1961; Bloch, 1961) and cystic hyperplasia in old
rabbits (Burrows, 1949) result from excessive estrogen in old age.
Some old mice have a prolonged proestrus (Thung, Boot, and |
Muhlboch, 1956). Cowdry (1952) has discussed this as a possibility
in human cystic hyperplasia of the endometrium and other genital
diseases which become very frequent after menopause. Dove, et al.,
(1970) have shown that urinary estrogen levels in post-menopausal
women do not provide an index of the degree of estrogenic stimulation
_on the cytological level. However, Ward and Thyssen (1970) found
that an elevated ratio of estrogens/ androgens correlates with
persistent karyopyknotic smears in post-menopausal women. Proges~
terone insufficiency has been suggested as the cause of menopausal
disturbances and senescent sterility (Poulson, 1970; Matthew, 1949;
Jones, 1970; Thorneycroft and Soderwall, 1969). Insufficient
progesterone causes both failure to implant and congenital abnor~
malities, depending on the amount of progesterone given (Poulson,
et al., 1965). Progesterone has been used in attempts to offset
the anti-fertility effects of estrogen in rats, with conflicting
results (Martin, 1962; Edgren, et al., 1961), and in cows, with good
results (Otel, et al, 1968). Progesterone can even improve fertility
after irradiation, which mimics estrogen (Valentini and Hahn, 1971).
Even though it is generally accepted that, within certain limits,
it is the estrogen/ progesterone ratio which is important, rather

than the absolute level, one would expect progesterone to be
32

incable of balancing the effect of a certain amount of estrogen
because of its solubility or binding properties. The effective

progesterone/estrogen ratio is sometimes placed as low as 20001,

but several studies have suggested that it may be as much as

300,000:1 (or even higher) (Challis, et al., 1971; Nutting-Meyer,
1970), in which case it is obvious that the capacity of a tissue
to absorb progesterone could easily be exceeded before reaching

the concentration needed for the proper ratio. (Low solubility of

_ progesterone has probably led to errors in protein binding assays:

Clark and Gurpide, 1972).

In spite of Thorneycroft and Soderwall's suggestion, based on
the size, number, and growth of corpora lutea in senescent hamsters,
Blaha (1971) found serum progesterone levels to be elevated in old
hamsters. However, without data on estrogen levels, this can be

considered as possibly only a compensatory response to elevated

estrogen. Leavit and Blaha (1970) attribute prolonged gestation

(observed by Soderwall, et al., 1962, in senescent hamsters) to

excess progesterone, through its supposed inhibitory effect on
uterine contractility. Since the development of the embryo is.
retarded in older animals (Parkening and Soderwail, 1972; Connors,
1969) even before implantation, Blaha's theory seems inadequate
to explain prolonged gestation. in vitro studies have shown
permanent damage to the embryo from excess estrogen, but not from
excess progesterone, yet both can interfere with cleavage (Daniel,

1964).
33

Glycogen deposits are diminished or at least delayed in
their appearance in the decidual cells of senescent hansters
(Connors, 1969). This is usually attributed to estrogen insufficiency,
but combined progesterone and estrogen appear to be responsible
- for increased glycogen deposition. Estrogen is known to activate
‘glycogen phosphorylase (Takeuchi, et al., 1962), which under known
* intracellular conditions (that is, a ratio of Pi/glucose-l~phosphate
of more than 3:2: Reithel, 1967) accelerates the conversion of
glycogen to glucose. Glucose or oxygen deficiency (Mitchell and
Yochim, 1968) or rapid growth (Needham, 1942) leads to disappearance
of glycogen. Since sufficient progesterone is necessary for decidual
cell differentiation to occur (Orsini, 1962) and excessive estrogen
will entirely suppress the decidual cell response (Finn and Emmens,
1961), it seems that the delayed and diminished deposition of
glycogen in the senescent animals’ decidual cells should be
attributed to a relative progesterone insufficiency (Pous and
'Comas, 1959), or even to excessive estrogenic stimulation. The
higher sensitivity of the senescent uterus to induction of mitoses
in ovariectomized rats (Finn and Martin, 1969) would be consistent
with an excess of bound estrogen. However, vitamin E deficiency
: may also prevent glycogen accumulation (Butturini, 1949).
While progesterone (and the chemically related androgens) seem

to have no toxic effect, organismically or cytologically,
34

estrogen has many deleterious. effects wheii ‘its concentration is
too high, for example on the adrenals (Kimeldorf and Soderwall,
1947), on liver mitochondria (Gonzales-Angulo, 1970), on deciduoma

formation (Finn and Emmens, 1961), on ova, in vitro (Kirkpatrick,

1971), on liver (Song and Kappas, 1969; Biskind, 1949), on fertility
(Smith, 1926), and as a carcinogen (Needham, 1942). Korenchevsky
(1961) Listed depression, salt retention, renal degenerative changes,

hypercalcaemia, hyperlipaemia, and epithelial hyperplasia as

’ other toxic effects.

Estrogen treatment is known to be able to cause liver damage, |
and prolonged treatment with estrogen lowers the activity of the
"mixed function oxidases" (Song and Kappas, 1968; Biskind, 1946).
Chronic estrogen treatment lowers UDP ~- glucuronyl-transferase
activity (which is important for removal of estrogen from the body)
and also lowers the activity of «glucuronidase, after first
raising its level (Wakabayashi, 1971). Many liver toxins can lower
the liver's capacity to inactivate estrogen (Biskind, 1946). Since
urinary estrogens may be 1000 times more concentrated than those in
the blood, the importance of conjugation in the liver for regulation
of hormone concentration is obvious. Nutritional deficiencies
are able to interrupt the liver's conjugation of steroids (and
other substances), and vitamin E deficiency is. known to be involved
in various Liver. diseases (Schwarz, 1949). Since the requirements

for vitamin E increase with age (Fuhr, et al., 1949), liver function
35

would tend to become increasingly precarious, to the extent that

it depends on the vitamin. Most of the measurable symptoms of
vitamin E deficiency have a precipitous onset (Fitch, 1968),
appearing and becoming extreme within a few days or a few weeks,
though serum tocopherol may not have been detectable for many
months. Such a physiological process might be involved in the
sudden "menopause" when it involves many large physiological
changes, but a sudden onset of infertility without other sudden
changes would suggest that a simple threshold of survival conditions
of the embryo may have been reached.

Estrogen seems to lower the intracellular K/Na ratio, possibly
causing the cell's "trans-membrane" potential to become lower
(Spaziani and Suddick, 1967; Jones, 1968, 1972; Goodland, 1953).
Such a change in salt ratio (Orr, et al., 1972) and in electrical
potential (Cone, 1970) apparently is very closely involved with the
regulation of DNA and RNA synthesis and with mitosis. Oxidative
Phosphorylation (Strickland, et al., 1955) is apparently necessary
for maintaining high intracellular K/Na ratios though possibly not
for maintaining the resting potential (Ling, 1962), so it is possible
that estrogen might have its early action either on the cytoplasmic
structure (Nemetchek-Gansler, 1967; Peat and Soderwall, 1972), i.e.,
producing a permeability or phase change, and thus affecting oxidation
by modifying structural relationships and diffusion rates and

solubilities, or on oxidative phosphorylation, with a phase change
36

(i.e., a salt ratio change) resulting from a reduction of the energy
charge. Merely incubating uterus in Eagle's medium mimics estrogen
action (Mueller, et al., 1958), and hypo-osmolarity duplicates some

effects (Adams and Haynes, 1969). Progesterone has an opposite

effect on sodium retention (Tomlinson, 1971; Jones, 1972). Sex

hormone effects seem to be universal and specific; even yeast
"sexual" types are selectively affected by the mammalian hormones
(Takao, et al., 1971; Yanagishima, et al., 1970).

The best known scheme for estrogen action (Jensen, et al., 1968;
Mueller, et al., 1958) suggests that estrogen binds to a cytoplasmic
"transport" protein and then enters the nucleus where it modifies
the chromosomes so that certain mRNAS are transcribed, leading to
synthesis of new proteins which then produce all other effects
by membrane and enzymic changes. This theory ignores the fact that
lipids are the first substances (by several hours) to show net
synthesis (Mueller, 1958), and the observations that salt ratio
changes are sufficient to initiate, stop, or modify synthesis of
DNA and RNA (Allfrey, et: al., 1964; Lezzi, 1969). Engel (1970)
suggests that certain enzymes have estrogen affinity sufficient. to
make them "receptors." Although the 9.55 and the 4-6S “receptors”

are not known to have enzyme activity, this may simply reflect

‘the fact that the leading investigators of these proteins are not

interested in their potential enzyme activity.
37

The Problem of Senescent Sterility and
Oxygen Wastage as its Immediate Cause

Several of the best established events in the aging process <-
changes in collagen, water, salts, pigment, and certain enzymes ~~
form a constellation, at least part of which reappears in several
other physiological states, which may have useful similarities to
aging: vitamin E deficiency, low oxygen tension, estrogen stimulation,
and radiation damage. (Muscular dystrophy, and possibly even
myocardial “oxygen wastage," may also be related conditions.)

Two of these states--vitamin E deficiency and radiation damage,

have been well studied in their relation to reproductive senescence.
This thesis will pursue the concept that low oxygen tension is a
probable immediate mechanism in reduced fertility, and that the above
mentioned constellation of factors, possibly initiated by estrogen
but also a self-stimulating process common to other physiological
states mentioned, is a prior cause of reproductive senescence,

Senescent hamsters ovulate seemingly normal eggs in normal
numbers. There is a much greater loss of embryos at the time of
implant at ion among old hamsters than among the young (seven times
greater, according to Thorneyeroft and Soderwall, 1969a). Some
loss does occur by later resorption (two times greater than young:
Thorneycroft and Soderwall, 1969b), and some ova seem to be delayed
in passage through the oviduct in the senescent animals (Connors,

1969), but their greatest difference from the young is at implantation
38

(Connors, Thorpe, and Soderwall, 1971). It has been fairly well

established in several species (Adams, 1965; Finn and Martin, 1969;

Talbert and Krohn, 1966; Biggers, 1969; Maurer and Foote, 1971;
Finn, 1970) that the aged uterus or its hormonal environment is more
likely to be the cause of sterility than the aged ova. Lack of
adhesiveness and lack of nutritive support are two possible aspects
of the uterus that have been considered as causes of aged sterility.
Although differences of surface structure and content of glycogen
and certain enzymes are known, it is difficult to argue that these
aré decisive. For example, even if glycogen stores are low, blood
glucose should provide a substitute; if estrogen dominance leads |
to rapid consumption of glucose by the uterus, lactate stould be

available. Blaha (1964) found early embryos apparently adhering

| ‘to the uterine epithelium in senescent hamsters, and only later

did they disappear. The requirement of the embryo for molecules
of three or four carbonsat the two cell stage disappears by the
blastocyst stage (Brinster, 1971; Biggers, 1971). However, there
is a large increase in oxygen consumption by the embryo at the
blastocyst stage, both in rate and in total quantity. (This seems
to be true for all vertebrates.) Needham (1931, 1942) reviewed
the work of Warburg, Loeb, and others on the relation of PO, to
respiration and development, and for the organisms considered
development was retarded and respiration inhibited by moderately

low PO,- In the normal animal, according to several studies in
39

rats (Yochim and Mitchell, 1968; Yochim, 1971), the luminal

PO, increases sharply at this time, just preceding implantation,

and renains high as far into pregnancy as measurements have been

made. This coincidence of increasing demand and increasing supply
suggests that a failure of supply may be critical, since no substitute
. for adequate oxygen is known. Glenister's (1970) observation that
embryos in tissue culture will develop farthest in an atmosphere of 30%
to 50% oxygen suggests that oxygen may be the Limiting factor in
implantation. He found that implantation occurred in vitro
irrespective of the physiological stage of the endometriums or

the presence or absence of added hromones. Glenister found that
hanster blastocysts would not attach to hamster endometrium which

was arranged in the form of a "well", which suggests that the

slightly greater diffusion distance in this configuration (which

was unnecessary when he used larger rabbit embryos) might have been

responsible for the failure to attach. It is known that the shape

ome ae

of the vessel can govern the rate of blastocyst development in vitro
(Winterberger, Torres and Daniel, 1971). ° Some of the embryos in
several species are retarded in their development in old animals,
With even a moderate oxygen: consumption rate, the pO, drops sharply
with the distance the oxygen must diffuse (Longmuir, 1958). The
apparent Km for oxygen of cytochrome oxidase is high, but the actual
Km of the enzyme is almost infinitely small (Boag, 1970). The

apparent Km for oxygen of intact cells has been found to increase

eae
40

with the diameter of the cell (Longmuir, 1958) and if this rule

applies to ova and blastocysts, then the Km of these must be very
highs possibly close to the PO, of capillaries.

According to Yochim's calculations, the uterine blood flow does
not increase as much as uterine respiration and uterine mass following
estrogenic stimulation, with the result that the tissue becomes
relatively hypoxic. The increased proportion of connective tissue
(Brooks, Sahinin, and Soderwall, 1964) would probably have a
similar effect. Parkening and Soderwall (1972) have presented
evidence for impaired capillary. permeability in old. hamsters at the
time of implantation, and suggest that this may be responsible for
delayed development of the blastocyst and its failure to implant.
Damage to uterine circulation prevents implantation in mice
(Senger, Lose, and Ulberg, 1967; Wigglesworth, 1964; Bruce, 1971).

With these considerations, it would seem appropriate to look
for the causes of senescent loss of fertility in the physiological
differences that exist between the young and the old uterus. The
eyclic uterus would reveal basic differences that exist as a function
of age, independent of the effect of embryos (McLaren and Menke, 1971).
(Embryos at different stages of development might make the meaning
of po, much more complex. Even with only the electrode consuming
Oo at the luminal surface or in luminal fluid, the problem of
a local gradient and different diffusion rates is a possible

source of error.) Besides oxygen tension, related factors will be
investigated, including rate of oxygen consumption, reductive

activity, and some specific enzymes that are relevant.

41
42.

METHODS AND MATERIALS

Animals

Hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) which had been maintained under
conditions of controlled light periods and partially controlled
temperature and housed in individual cages were used in these
experiments. They were fed lab chow pellets and lettuce; from

August to December, 1971, they were given a vitamin supplement,

_ including vitamin E. Two age groups were used: "young", three

to six months old, and "senescent", thirteen to sixteen months old.

When the whole uterus was to be used, the animals were given
0.5 ml of sodium pentobarbital solution (50 mg/ml) by intraperitoneal
injection, and when measurements were to be made in vivo 0.25 m21/100
gx. body weight was given. Animals were followed through at least 2
estrus cycles, using the method of Orsini (1961), and were used on
day 4 of the cycle. ,

For enzyme studies, the uteri were removed, blotted and gently
stripped to remove fluid, and weighed. Wet weight is used in all .
experiments, since Large increases in collagen would make dry
weight or protein basis misleading. The decreased water content would
tend to offset increased collagen of old tissue. For the tetrazolium

assay, 40 mg. pieces of whole uterus were blotted, weighed, and
43

immediately dropped into the tetrazolium solution at incubation
temperature. When endometrium and myometrium were to be assayed
separately, the uterus was opened by cutting one side longitudinally,
and placed on a cool glass surface, where the endometrium was

quickly removed by scraping and placed in cold saline until weighed.
The tissue was homogenized in one ml. of saline for each gram of
fresh tissue. _

For respiration measurements, the tissue was prepared as above
except that instead of being homogenized, it was cut with small
scissors into pieces about 0.5 mm in diameter. Pieces of approximately
10 to 15 mg. of endometrium, myometrium, or whole uterus were blotted
on dry glass and quickly weighed, then returned to cold Krebs
Ringers before being cut. Thechopped tissue was immediately placed
in 2 ml. of cold Krebs<Ringers in the respirometer flask, or in the

electrode chamber.

Oxygen Consumption

GILSON MANOMETRIC METHOD: 10 to 15 mg. of uterine tissue
prepared as described above was placed in 3 ml. of Krebs-Ringer
solution, pH 7.1 in a manometer flask, with 0.2 ml. of concentrated
KCl solution in the center well with a filter paper wick, and allowed
to equilibrate for 5 minutes at 36°C before recording oxygen
consumption. Readings were made at 5 or 10 minute intervals for
one hour. In some cases, concentrated sulfuric acid was added to

~”~

the vessel side~arms.
44

BECKMAN CLARK ELECTRODE METHOD: 0.2 ml. of Krebs-Ringers
solution was injected into the recording chamber and allowed to
reach 37°; 10 mg. of tissue, prepared as described above, was
Placed in the chamber and the Beckman Clark electrode was inserted,
and recording was begun immediately, using the Backman 160 Physio-

logical Gas Analyzer and a Varicord recorder.

Luminal Oxygen Tension

Some measurements were made using a Beckman platinum micro~
electrode inserted into the uterine lumen through an 18 gauge
arterial needle. Most measurements were made by cutting an opening
on the anti~mesometrial side of the uterus about 0.5 cm below the

uterotubal junction and inserting the bare microelectrode directly

into the lumen. One horn of. the uterus was exposed at a time through |

a small incision in the back, so the same animal could be used for
more than one measurement. Thirteen cycling animals were used, and
two on day 4.1/2 of pregnancy. Insertion of the electrode through

the vagina may allow air to enter.

Triphenyl Tetrazolium Chloride Reduction

Forty mg. of fresh tissue was dropped into 4 ml. of
a 0.5% solution of TIC in 0.1 M phos phate buffer, pH 8.5, and

incubated one hour at 37°C. The tissue was then removed and left
45

in 4 ml. of reagent grade acetone until all color was removed.

As a blank control, 40 mg. of fresh tissue was placed direct Ly into
4 ml. of acetone. The color intensity was recorded photometrically
Cat 475 nm.) and the quantity of formazan present was determined

by comparison with known quantities of formazan in acetone.

Enzymes

TOTAL LDH, 0.1 ml of enzyme solution (supernatant fluid of
the homogenate) was diluted with 1.0 ml of saline and 0.1 ml of
this solution was added to Sigma Standard Substrate, incubated for
30 minutes, developed with Sigma Color Reagent, and optical density
was measured in a Beckman Model B spectrophotometer at 570 nn,
wavelength. )

LDH ISOZYMES. Enzyme solution was prepared as above, except
that 0.1 ml of the enzyme was diluted with phosphate buffer, 0.1 M;
pH 7.5, and heated to 57°C to inactivate the heat sensitive isozyme 1
(liver or muscle isozyme), and another 0.1 ml was heated to 65°
to inactivate all isozymes but the relatively heat stable isozyme 5
(heart isozyme). The heated enzymes were then treated as above,
and their activities were compared to an unheated sample. Some
samples were separated by electrophoresis and stained with Sigma
color reagent and substrate. )

Special care must be taken with the homogenate for LDH

measurement, since the M, isozyme is cold-denatured (Zondag, 1963).
46

A -GLUCURONIDASE. Phenolphthalein glucuronide (0.01 M) was

. used as a substrate, and incubated at 37° in an acetate. buffer at

pH.4.5 for 1. hour, with 0.1 ml of the same enzyme solution used
for LDH assays (Fishman and Green, 1956; Talalay, Fishman and Huggins,
1946; Fishman, Springer, and Brunetti, 1948). Released phenolph-
thalein was made visible by raising the pH to 10.5 with glycine
buffer, and measured in the photometer at 540 nm. Fixed sections
of uterus were also treated, for approximate localization of the
enzyme. | |

PEROXIDASE, P-phenylenediamine (0.01 M) was used as substrate,

and incubated at room temperature. The photometric measurement

was ; made every minute during the raction. 0.1 ml of the same

enzyme solution as above was used. Fixed sections of uterus were

also stained with p-phenylenediamine for general localization of

peroxidase activity.

CATALASE, Using 0.01 M hydrogen peroxide as substrate, 0.1 ml
of the enzyme solution described above was placed in a respirometer

flask with 2 al. of substrate solution (in phesphate buffered saline,

pH 7. 5, 0.15 M) and the rate of oxygen evolution was recorded.

With the same substrate concentration, both enzymes should reach

the same total amount of oxygen generated, though at different times,
but the concentration of H,0, used inactivates both enzyme solutions
in about the same length o£ time, leaving some substrate unchanged

when the reaction stops from enzyme damage.
47

Animals to be used in NMR studies of estrogen influence were
injected subcutaneously with 5 ug of estradiol in albumin solution
three days before using, and ovariectomized animals were prepared
at least a month before use. Whole uteri were kept in cool saline

until they were placed in NMR vials.

Assays

BOUND-ESTROGEN ASSAY, BROWN-ITTRICH FLUORESCENSE METHOD.
(Lunaas, 1962). Whole uterine homogenate was extracted with 2
volumes of acetone, which was partially evaporated, and placed in
fuming sulphuric acid, and then extracted with 4 ml of methylene
chloride. This was placed in quartz cuvettes, and a Hitachi
Perkin Elmer MPF-2A fluroescence spectrophotometer was used to scan
at 565 nm while exciting with u.v. at 546 nm, using slits #5, and
sensitivities 5 and 6,

| DYE COUPLING METHOD. (4-amino-6-chloro-m-benzenedisulfonamide, }
Urbanyi's method developed for pharmaceutical use was applied to-
a methanol extract of the uterine homogenate (Urbanyi and Reim, 1966),

BIO~ASSAY. Whole uteri were extracted in acetone (Jakubowska-
Naziemblo, 1969), which was evaporated and the extract resuspended
in 1% ethanol in saline solution. Half of this was injected as
2 subcutaneous doses (1 ml each) on consecutive days into each
‘ovariectomized animal. Their uteri were inspected and weighed two

days after the second injection.
,

48

UTERINE AGE PIGMENT EXTRACTION, Whole senescent uteri

which had been cleared in benzyl benzoate and which were heavily

pigmented were soaked in reagent grade diethyl ether or pyridine |

until the solvent was slightly colored, about 24 hours. Ether

or pyridine extracts of old uteri were scanned at visible frequencies

in a Beckman Model B Spectrophotometer, and at ultraviolet frequencies

in a Cary 14 ultraviolet photometer.

Uterine Weight, Water Gontents, and Diameter

After weighting the whole fresh uterus, pieces of 50 to 75
mg of whole uterus, or 10 to 20 ng of endometrium, or 50 to 100
mg of myometrium were occasionally taken for dehydration and
determination of wet weight/dry weight ratio. Representative
slides of fixed uterine cross sections were measured to determine

overall diameter and thickness of myometrium and endometrium.

Vitamin E Treatment

Three animals were given 125 units of vitamin E once a week
for six weeks, orally, and were then used for oxygen tension

measurements.

NMR _ Spin Echo of Tissue

Recently removed uteri were examined in a Nuclear Magnetic

Resonance Specialties Spin Echo Spectrometer, at 25 megahertz.
49

Inspection of Harderian Glands

The eyes of recently killed hamsters were pushed aside and the
tissues of the eye sockets were examined under long-wave ultraviolet

light for red fluorescence.

Uterine Age Pigment Extraction

Whole senescent uteri which had been cleared in benzyl benzoate
and which were heavily pigmented were soaked in reagent grade
di-ethyl ether or pyridine until the solvent was slightly colored,
about 24 hours. Ether or pyridine extracts of old utert were

scanned at visible frequencies in a Beckman Model B spectrophoto-

meter, and at ultraviolet frequencies in a Cary 15 ultraviolet )
photometer.
Statistics

Differences between means were evaluated by Student's t test,
with Cochran's approximation to the Behrens-Fisher correction for

samples of different variation when necessary.
50

RESULTS

It is really rather strange that human beings are
normally deaf to the strongest arguments while
they are always inclined to overestimate measuring
accuracies.

--A. Einstein
OXYGEN CONSUMPTION. The uteri of forty-six animals, twenty~
three young and twenty-three senescent, were studied by the Gilson
manometric technique, and six (three young, three. old) by the
Beckman oxygen electrode method. The mean Qo, (in x1 0,/mg. wet
weight/hour) were:
' Senescent Young P

3.7 2.5 <.05

_ This is not a high level of significance, but the limitation
is probably inherent in the method (Jusiak, 1970). Finer discrimi- .
nation can be achieved by using anindirect method such as TTC
reduction, assuming that these two events closely correspond to
each other, as indicated by Cascarano and Zwifach (1955). The
problem of ammonia production will be discussed below (under Oxygen
Consumption, in Discussion).

LUMINAL OXYGEN TENSION. Cycling animals:
Senescent (5) _ Young (5) Vitamin E treated (3)

Range, Q-2 4-8 6-12
mm Hg
51

The oxygen tensions measured in the senescent uteri are in the

range known to limit in yitro respiration, and also to Limit

development of cultured embryos (Needham 1931), but the exact
oxygen requirements of embryos are not accurately known, since oxygen
tension is normally measured only in the gas phase. The effective
Km for oxygen increases with increased cell diameter (Longmuir,
1957), and the viscosity of the surrounding medium must also have an
effect. The early period following ovulation is likely to be similar
in both the regular cycle and following mating. This difference
in PO, could easily account for the early retardation observed in
senescent hamsters’ embryos, such as lagging cleavage and delay in
loss of the zona pellucida. The established lag in uterine changes
(Connors, 1969; Stockton, 1972) suggests that this difference in
PO, may become even more distinct around the time of implantation,
when respiration is even higher, and the likelihood of damage even
greater, but the fact that the lumen no longer exists at this time
makes it necessary to depend on indirect evidence. If it can be
generally accepted that TIC reduction does accurately reflect the
QO, of a tissue, then a complete study of the differences in uterine
reductive capacity between old and young animals should be done on
each day of pregnancy, to build on the very suggestive work that
has been done on rats of different ages by Schultze (1967).

One young and one senescent hamster on day 4 1/2 of pregnancy
were used in an attempt to study the luminal oxygen tension directly,
and the p0.s measured were 4 om Hg in the senescent, and 15-40 mu Hg

in the young. However, the procedure caused tremendous disruption
‘52

of the tissues. Since the closure of the young lumen is believed
to be firmer than that of the old animal, this very large difference
could probably be at least partly attributed to greater bleeding
in the young. Nevertheless, differences such as these would be
expected on the basis of decreased oxygen consumption of implantation
sites, and the senescent lag in factors related to implantation.

TIC REDUCTION,

Senescent Young P
% Transmittance 33 48 <.01
at 475 nm

These values are equivalent to approximately .05 and .03 mg formazan
‘per sample, respectively (22 animals). In a group of three young
Litter mates and three old litter mates, the variability was much
less (P <.001).

A-GLUCURONIDASE. Mean % transmittance at 540 nm after one
hour incubation:

Senescent (3) Young (3) ‘PR
34 20 | <.01

Sections showed a generalized pale stain, except around blood
vessels, where it was very intense. ,

PEROXIDASE. Mean % transmittance at 540 nm and at 90 seconds:

Senescent (4) Young (4) P
59 , : 66 <.05

Sections showed intensely stained granules about 5 a1 in diameter

distributed throughout, but especially in the endometrium, and a
53

very intensely stained endometrial epithelium; a few larger areas,
about 20 by 80 microns, were more Lightly stained; these may have
been blood vessels. |
CATALASE. Mean x] O, at 5 minutes:
Senescent (4) Young (4) P
78 105 <.05

UTERINE WEIGHT.

3-6 months _ 14 months P
Mean 385 mg 592 mg <.001
Mean ratio dry weight /wet weight:
Senescent Young
. 25 animals myometrium 1:4 1:6
12. animals endometrium ; 1:6.5 1:6.6
The greatest increase of thickness was in the myometrium, but the )

“endometrium also appeared to become thicker with age.

Estrogen Assays

BROWN-ITTRICH FLUROESCENCE METHOD. . Five old and three young
uteri showed a significant difference in fluorescence at the
frequencies used for the oxidation product (or products) of estrogen.
The shape of the spectrum was similar to that of estrogen products,
and to that of the standard solutions used, within the resolution,
which was very poor under these conditions of sensitivity and

frequency.
54

Mean intensity of fluorescence (in arbitrary units):
Mean § (5) Mean Y (3) P
"$2 14. <.01

Estradiol Standard
1 ug 10 zug
19 | 27

DYE COUPLING METHOD (4~-amino~6<chloro-m=benzenedisulfonamide) :
Rather than the red product resulting from condensation of estrogen
with the dye both young and old gave a yellow product; the old
gave a nore intense yellow color. This would suggest either that
there was no estrogen in the extract, or that there were other
materials that condensed with the dye more easily. The technique
was discarded as an estrogen assay, but the fact that there was an
age-dependent difference, and that bile pigments similarly condense
to form diazo products, suggest that. the product's spectrum should
be compared with known bile pigments similarly condensed.

BIOASSAY. Since: this method was intended, to assay for
“estrogenicity"™ bound in the uterus, extraction was made in acetone,
in which estrogen is highly soluble. An effect on the uterine
weight was the intended object of investigation. However, it
was noticed that after two injections (containing the extract of
1/2 an old uterus) the ovariectomized recipient had red fluorescence
around one eye. This typical Harderian fluorescence has been

reported not to occur in ovariectomized animals unless estrogen
55

has been administered, although injection of porphyrins into intact
redents can cause increased secretion, which has led to the concept )
that the gland may concentrate and secrete porphyrins produced
elsewhere, rather than synthesizing them (Figge, 1947). No difference
in uterine weight was observed,

AGE PIGMENT. The age pigment spectrum of certain tissues has
been studied by Strehler (1967) and Karnaukhov (1971). Strehler
reported increasing but homogeneous absorption at higher frequency
ultraviolet, but Karnaukhov found several peaks of absorption around
260-280 nm (an acetone extract in petroleum ether) in nerve and
salivary gland extracts. The uterine pigment, extracted in ether,
shows increasing absorption at shorter wavelength (especially below
250 nm), except for a peak at 280 nm, similar to one observed in
: a blood extract: and. to one peak in Karnaukhov's extract.. This is
“consistent with the suggestion of Orsini and Meyer (1962) and
Deno (1937) that the pigment is related to blood or hemosiderin,

but the nearly smooth absorption curve could represent a complex

mixture. The peak at 280 nm is lost in a methanol extract.
| , a 56
Young ; : Ola

H4 H3My HoHo HAMS My Ha H3Mz HoHe HIM My
Typical electrophoretic distribution of isozymes

Mean % of H

4
s Y P
12 animals 14,3 "10.7 205
) young)

. Total LDH Activity in B-B Units per ml:

1700 1950 .05
Amplitude

NMR Spin Echo of Whole Uterd

(Absolute amplitude is only an
effect of sample size.)

———-—«—e Egt ro gen

git , (gia

57
58

Harderian Fluorescence

we
o

ith at least
$

ake
o

one eye with intense
fluores cence
8

%oanimale wu

Age (os 19 s 2,0 as
Approximate incidence of red eye fluorescence with age in months.

25 animals.

NMR Spin Echo

The NMR spin echo results are similar to those of Damadian

_€1971) comparing tumor with normal tissue, and of Hazelwood (1971),

comparing fetal with mature tissue. The results suggest that
senescent uterine water is more bulk=like than that of young uterus,

as tumor and fetal tissue water is more bulk-like than that of normal

and mature tissues,
59

DISCUSSION

Every statement implies a metaphysic.
““A. N. Whitehead

The Paradigm Problem

Even seemingly simple and "straight-forward" problems and
solutions are ultimately questions of probability, and interpretation
is present in the most “objective” treatment of a question (Tart, :
1972). A more complex problem requires a more complex context if
a similar degree of "objectivity" is to be maintained. Whenever .
a paradigm is left, the question of interpretation becomes more )
apparent.
This thesis begins by questioning the paradigm of "aging
as decline" of hormone concentration and metabolic rate, That
paradigm was based on certain gross and organismic observations,
and is valid with regard to androgenic, luteal, and certain adrenal
hormones, at least in most mammals, and with regard to whole animal
oxygen consumption per unit of tissue, and probably even with regard
to mitochondrial respiration. However, it lacks generality.
Highlights from a large literature regarding the physiology of
aging are presented in the introduction, to show that a contrary,

and much more general, paradigm exists, which can be stated
60

approximately as "in aging and other distress conditions, typical
shifts of metabolic pathways occur." Measurements ‘that only seen
peculiar when considered in the former paradigm, may be definitive
in the latter. The typical shifts of metabolism include:
a) “damaged respiration" in the sense of a decreased efficiency
of phosphorylation, or excessive hydrolysis of ATP, by
high ATPase activity, which can result from mitochondrial
damage 3
b) compensatory glycolytic phosphorylation;
¢) given mitochondrial damage and NADH production in |
glycolysis, a necessary step in compensation is the oxidation
of NADH, for example by LDH, or peroxidase, or “age-pipgment-.
related NADH oxidase." Either lactate formation, or
oxygen consumption, or both, or another kind of oxidation,
must increase if glycolysis is to proceed.
. This. paradigm forms an interpretive Link between the various
“distress conditions," and suggests that low oxygen tension will be
a factor in these various conditions. The Literature on mammalian
loss of fertility under many conditions, e.g., X-irradiation, estrogen
treatment, adrenaline treatment, senescence, vitamin E deficiency,

progesterone deficiency, intrauterine devices, etc., is remarkable

.for the great similarities that exist in such diverse conditions.

Estrogen action is the most common and easily manipulable of these

conditions, and so each of the other conditions tends to. be
61

described as "estrogenic." Knowledge regarding the states in which
estrogen may be bound within the uterus is not adequate to provide
a sound basis for its extraction and unambiguous assay. Whether
these conditions that prevent gestation actually increase estrogen
concentration in the uterus, or merely mimic it, is still debatable.
The available metabolic information about the various "distress
conditions" indicates that oxygen wastage is likely to be a common

factor; data on embryos’ requirement for oxygen in vitro show that

— a. ee

oxygen deprivation in utero could be responsible for pregnancy
wastage. The new paradigm suggests the hypothesis of loss of
fertility through excessive reduction of oxygen, as a normal feature
of aging, as well as in the various other "distress conditions,"
All aspects of the hamster uterus that have been measured are
consistent with this. The old paradigm does not unambiguously -
predict any of the observed age changes. To make it do so requires
a complex series of ad hoc assumptions, each one to explain away
as “nonwestrogenic" a change which to this point had been considered
to be estrogenic. One clear prediction that it makes is that the
senescent uterus will not have an elevated metabolic rate. This
is refuted by the observations, especially the TTC reduction,
Another clear prediction made by the old paradigm is that
senescent sterility and estrogen-induced sterility will not act by
the same mechanism, since senescent sterility is conceived of as

an effect of estrogen deficiency, exactly the opposite of an estrogen
62

excess. However, the data show that senescence lowers oxygen tension,
just as estrogen treatment does,

It is remarkable that, in spite of in vitro studies that

show sensitivity of mammalian embryos to changes in oxygen tension,
the issue has been almost entirely ignored in studies of fertility,
and has never previously been considered in relation to senescent
sterility. Even percentages of oxygen higher than atmospheric

can be limiting to embryos implanting in vitro, suggesting that

implantation is especially sensitive to oxygen deficiency.
Implantation is also the main point of damage in the. various
"distress conditions," as far as the question has been investigated.
A paradigm by definition is open-ended enough to allow for
further development, and so can never be overturned by data or
reasoning, but it can become increasingly untenable. The smaller
question, however, of whether oxidative changes are adequate to
account for embryonic retardation, non+impLant ation, and resorption
can be more decisively answered, because the less complex question
calls on a less complex interpretive context.
. The observations require rejection of the view that an oxygen
deficiency cannot eccur in the uterus from common physiological
causes. Hypoxia has been proposed as the cause of abortion
following vasoligation, but it has been generally believed that
only such gross interference with circulation could produce sufficient
hypoxia, That the cause can be physiological is indicated by the

increased metabolic rate.
63

Beyond this, the observations characterize the senescent
uterus as being in a very common physiological state, which can be
called a "distress state." The causal relation between age and
‘the other states is discussed on the basis of the literature.
Senescence is physiological, and the physiology is such that
sterility must result.

The correspondence of the changes in the senescent uterus
to changes in the other distress states supports the view that
the changes are patterned, paradigmatic, coherent and meaningful
metabolic changes. Although the pathway details are not completely
. known, the existence of compensatory glycolysis and non=mitochondrial

oxidation have been well established in various tissues.

The Senescent State

There is considerable evidence that the estrogen/ progesterone
ratio, or estrogen/17-keto steroid ratio, increases with age, at
least in mice, rats, rabbits, and women, .and that this change has
metabolic effects similar to treatment with exogenous estrogen,
. However, irritation, low thyroid, excessive copper absorption, etc.,
probably could increase the estrogen effect without necessarily
affecting the concentration of circulating estrogens. To find in
senescence the metabolic state associated with estrogen treatment is
interest ing more for the possible effects of this state on functions |
such as implantation, than for its corroboration of a suspected excess

of estrogen. The generality of this "distress state" of
64

metabolism is intrinsically interesting.

ra Enzymes

Many enzymes, including ATPase, spermidine synthetase, alkaline

phosphatase, NADH~oxidase, @-glucuronidase, sulfatase, peroxidase,

hexokinase (Gross, 1961), malate dehydrogenase (Wilson, 1969) ,

Slucose~6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydro-

genase (Schmidt, et als; 1967), lactic dehydrogenase, and ornithine

decarboxylase (Kaye et (abe, 1971), change in activity under the

influence of estrogen, but a few are especially important in

relation to oxidative metabolism, An apparent increase of cytochrome

oxidase following estrogen treatment turned out to be peroxidase

Gucas, et al., 1955).

IDH was considered to be an especially suitable enzyme to

study in relation to implant at ion because its total activity and

isozyme composition are known to reflect oxygen concentration and
degree of estrogenic stimulation, and to relate to the tissue's
disposition of lactate and pyruvate (Johansson, 1966; Battelino,
et al., 1971; Goodfriend and Kaplan, 19643, Dawson, et ale, 1964).

The enzyme can also function as a potential “cranshydrogenase"

system (Sanval, et al., 1970; Young, 1961), and thus is in a position

to regulate the glucose~6-phosphate oxidation pathway of carbohydrate
metabolism. Also, the equilibrium |

lactate + nap? én §=pyruvate + NADH + H”
nr :
65

implies that as the reaction proceeds toward lactate formation, the
pH will tend to rise. In many tissues the ratio of lactate/pyruvate
is much smaller than the chemical equilibrium, probably because
of oxidative competition for the NADH (Olson, 1963). Restricting
oxygen ‘would probably allow the reaction to move farther toward
equilibrium, with & consumption of Protons. Elevated pH tends to
weaken other controls (e.g., the inhibiting effect of ATP, involved
| in the Pasteur effect) over phosphofructokinase (Racker, . 1972)
"which is an important control point in glycolysis. Waddell (1969)
has pointed out that the addition of glucose to cancer cells
tends to raise the intracellular pH, as the cells form large amounts
of lactate. High pH has been observed to increase the rate of
lactate formation without increasing respiration (Tobin and Mehlman,
1971). In aged rats, intracellular pH may be elevated (Comol Li,
1971) as well as lactate production in certain tissues (Angelova-
Gateva, 1968). The NAD *yyaDH ratio also controls the rate of
“glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate oxidation (Racker, 1972). IDH is thus
in a position to exercise extensive control over glycolysis,
possibly providing a mechanism for interfering with the Pasteur:
, effect (which is decreased under the influence of estrogen:
Greenstein, 1954). the IDH isozyme ratio nay be of import ance not
only for determining the availability of pyruvate for oxidation,
but for regulating other pathways. (Considering the low pO, of
senescent or estrogen dominated hamster uterus, and the requirements

of spermatozoa for oxygen = Nevo, 1965 - the X isozyme in male
66

producing spermatozoa - Stambaugh and Buckley, 1970 - may relate
to the lower proportion of males in senescence or estrogen treat«
ment: Hahn and Hays, 1963),

In the presence of very active NADH-oxidase, pyruvate and

‘Lactate might also have a "coenzyme" function in relation to this

enzyme. Peroxidase, which is "induced" by estrogen, has an NADH=
oxidase function (Lucas, et al., 1955), and this activity is also
found in association with age pigment (Strehler, 1967).

There is a slight decrease of total LDH activity in old animals,
probably not significant considering their higher proportion of
connective tissue and collagen.

Oxygen tension regulates the isozyme ratio, both in vitro and
an vivo (Clark and Yochim, 1971; Yochim and Clark, 1970; Fujisawa,
1969; Johansson, 1966). Citric acid cycle intermediates can retard
the formation of isozyme "M" by chick heart muscle cells in culture
(Gahn, 1969), but oxygen tension has its isozyme inducing effect
regardless of the presence of metabolic inhibitors, including

fluoroacetate, potassium cyanide, 2, 4<dinitrophenol and sodium

' amytal (Johansson, 1966). Because of this, it has been speculated

that oxygen might act directly on the genes regulating LDH isozyme
synthesis, but other methods of control, such as preferential

degradation (Pruitt, 1971; Greengard, 1967) might be more fruitful
to investigate experimentally, especially considering the greater

lability of the "liver" isozyme, both in heat and cold (Zondag, 1963;
67

Kreutzer and Fennis, 1964). Direct action of oxygen or peroxides
on the labile isozyme, or an effect involving sequestering of the
stabilizing coenzyme, NAD, might be mechanisms for regulating
isozyme proportions, The Hy isozyme seems to be the most lipophilic
as well as the most stable, and M, the least lipophilic (Kabara
and Konvich, 1972). This result is implicitly predicted by the
theory which relates cytoplasmic phase changes to control of enzyme
activity (Peat and Soderwall, 1972).
Finding the Hy isozyme increased with age leads to at least
two or three questions:
1) Does enzyme induction by oxygen relate to the rate of
consumption of oxygen, rather than to oxygen tension itself?
2) If the function of this isozyme is to save some pyruvate
for another use, rather than converting it to lactate
(Lehninger, 1970), is carboxylation to oxaloacetate
that use? |
3) Would it lead to a situation in which (because of H=LDH's
inhibition by high concentrations of pyruvate) pyruvate
carboxylase tended to become rate limiting for glycolysis?
Although no mechanism is suggested, it is interesting that the
age shift of isozymes is opposite to the shift which occurs in
pregnancy, as early as day 5, when uterine oxygen consumption is.
known to decrease (Battelino, et al., 1971).
/8 -Glucuronidase is increased in liver, uterus,. kidney, and

other tissues by injection of estrogen (Fishman, 1950) or various
68

poisons, and this effect has been likened to. the induction of
detoxifying enzymes in the liver by their substrates. Levvy
(Karunairatnam and Levvy, 1949) has offered the contrary inter~
pretation that 4 ~glucuronidase is merely involved in tissue
proliferation, regardless of what causes the proliferation. Pro=
longed estrogen treatment causes an eventual decline in 4-glucuron-
idase, as it does of the mixed function oxidases (Song and Kappas,
1968). Its decline with age in the hamster uterus thus is consistent
with. the view that estrogen tends to dominate uterine metabolism
in.senescence, but of course doesn’t imply that this is what occurs,
However, if its normal function in the uterus and other tissues

is to conjugate and remove estrogen to prevent estrogen toxicity,

. then its absence in the senescent uterus would suggest an explanation

for other physiological changes that occur in the uterus with age,

I£ estrogen no longer turned over in the uterus, then a much smaller

supply could raise the uterine content. Estrogen treatment is known

to "induce" larger amounts of the estrogen binding protein (Kraay and

Black, 1970), as well as reducing the progesterone binding capacity

. o£ the uterus (Armstrong and King, 1971). Post-menopausal women

have at least as high a concentration of uterine “estrogen receptor"
protein as do younger women (McGuire, et al., 1972; Trams, et al.,
1971).

f2-Glucuronidase is known to have an in yitro transferase

function (e.g., transfer of glucuronic acid from phenolphthalein

to an alcohol) besides its common hydrolytic function (Fishman and
69

Green, 1957). It has been shown to have a slow synthetic function
in vitro (Florkin, 1940). Fishman (personal communication) feels

that an in vivo conjugating (transferase) function is plausible, con«

sidering the similar role of a "hydrolytic" enzyme such as glucose-
6~phosphatase. @~Glucuronidase is so abundant in smooth endoplasmic
reticulum that iit is considered likely to be a structural protein
(Wakabayashi, 1970). —

CATALASE, Catalase activity of the uterus is interesting
because it is believed to relate to the cytochrome system
(@eisseroth and Dounce, 1970), is lower in the female, at least
in some species (Adams, 1965), and since either its rate of synthesis
or rate of degradation appears to change with age in mouse liver
(Baird and Samis, 1971). The fact that its activity is lowered )
by riboflavin deficiency (Adams, 1965) and by serum or tissue |
extract from animals with tumors (Nakahara and Fukuoka, 1959),
and is lower in females, suggests that its level will correspond
to the amount of energy derived from mitochondrial oxidation.
A similar extract is an abortifacient. The lower level in the aged
uterus would not be particularly interesting if oxygen consumption
were lower in that tissue. Since oxygen consumption tends to be
higher, low catalase activity suggests that the oxidation may not
be occurring in the usual way.

PEROXIDASE. The fact that estrogen activates the NADH~oxidase
function of peroxidase, which itself is “induced" by estrogen
(Lucas, et al., 1955; Yokota and Yamazaki, 1965; Jellink and Lyttle,

1971; Temple, et al., 1959; Hollander and Stephens, 1959; Beard a)
70

and Hollander, 1962) suggests that in the uterus peroxidase may be
involved at an early stage in the process of cell activation by
estrogen. Vitamin E, which is known to inhibit peroxidation, has
anti-estrogenic effects, including inhibition of the formation of
the estrogen-dependent uterine age pigment, which is associated
with NADH~oxidase activity, and which is generally considered to
result from peroxidation of lipids and proteins (Elftman, et al.,
1949).

VITAMIN E. Tuo classical symptoms of a vitamin E deficiency
are increased tissue oxygen consumption (Ilouchin, 1942) and anemia
(Fitch, 1968). The degree of stability of erythrocytes in the
‘presence of oxidants, such as hydrogen peroxide, is an indication
of the vitamin E status of the animal. Vitamin E has an anti-~
oxidant function, but other properties are also believed to be
involved in its vitamin activity. It increases the viscosity
of protein solutions (e.g., albumin), apparently by causing a more
extended conformation of the protein, Such a physical or mechanical
‘ property, as well as a chemical anti-oxidant property, could be
involved in its anti~hemolytic effect, and in its ability to stabilize
other "membrane" systems such as lysosomes (McCay et al., 1971).

It lowers the extractability of muscle proteins (Matusis, 1970).
The enzymes of vitamin C synthesis in microsomes are inactivated
‘by lipid peroxides, and preserved by added @&tocopherol (Chatterjee

and McKee, 1965). Estrogen's effects on vitamin C synthesis,
71

fo~glucuronidase (of lysosomes), and pigment formation may be
produced by a common structural event. Uterine age pigment requires
estrogen for its development, but vitamin E treatment prevents its—
formation (Kaunitz, et al., 1948; Atkinson, et al., 1949).

If hemes, or other porphyrins, are related to the lipofuscins

or age pigments, they may be responsible for the NADH-oxidase
activity that B jorkerud (Strehler, 1967) found associated with the
Pigments. The same hemolysis which leads to vitamin E. deficiency
anemia could therefore also be responsible for the increased oxidation
of vitamin E deficiency. Since hypoxia stimulates porphyrin synthesis
(Falk, et al., 1959), oxygen wastage by porphyrins would tend to be
' @ positive feedback process. The oxidase activity of age pigment
granules is cold-inactivated (Bjorkerud and Cummins, 1963),

which is consistent with the theory of pathway regulation by
“structural temperature" (Peat and Sederwall, 1972). I£ estrogen's
action is intrinsically related to a hypoxic state, this could also
explain the fact that porphyrins are synergistic with estrogen,

and similarly could explain the occurrence’ of porphyrins mainly

in female and cancer-prone rodents (Strong, 1942; Figge, 1942).
Vitamin E is known to lower serum bilirubin related to liver damage
(Schwarz, 1949).

The circulatory availability of oxygen, as well as the metabolic

disposition of oxygen, may be directly related to the vitamin E

status of the animal. Adaptive hyperemia in several glands
72

has been found to result from the action of peptide kinins, produced
by proteolytic kallikreins (Schachter, 1969). Small molecule
inhibitors (e.g., Trasylol, €-amino caproic acid) are known, as well
as the protein inhibitors, of the kallikreins and other proteolytic
enzymes (cathepsins, trypsin). Age, X-irradiation, and estrogen
have been implicated in various ways in proteinase inhibition.

The "Shute test" (Shute, 1937; de Oliveira, 1949), a measure of

the level of serum proteolytic inhibitory activity, clearly shows
that a vitamin E deficiency increases the inhibition of proteolytic

enzymes. The presence of inhibitors would tend to suppress

... Lormation of. kinins, the local “inflammatory" vasodilators, and

would also interfere with clot “removal.
The hamsters that were given vitamin E in very Large doses

showed chronic leucocytic vaginal smears, as in rats given daily

' doses of progesterone (Labhsetwar, 1970).

A vitamin E deficiency causes muscles of rabbits (Morgulis

‘and Osheroff, 1937) to increase their concentration of "extra=

cellular" ions, especially na", C1”, and ca’t, suggesting a

possible.loss of organic ions, as well as an energy loss: creatine

. phosphate may be largely responsible, since vitamin E deficiency

causes creatinuria.

.The observations of Thorneycroft and Soderwall (1969) regarding
fewer.and smaller corpora lutea in senescent hamsters may relate
to the observations of Lecoq and Isidor (1949) that vitamin E

deficient rats have no corpora lutea.
73

Progesterone's effect on Na’, cl", ca’, and water is similar
to that of vitamin E, and opposed to estrogen's effect. The most
sensitive demonstration of vitamin E's anti-estrogen effect is
probably Lecoq's (1949), on uterine chronaxy.

Vitamin E requirements increase with age (Fuhr, et al., 1949;
Ames and Ludwig, 1964; P'an, et al., 19493 Emerson and Evans, 1940)
and a deficiency acts mostly to block implantation (Blandau, et al.,

ae

1949)...

Oxygen. Consumption

A likely source of error in measuring tissue oxygen consumption
(besides the problem of balancing cell damage in thin slices or
minces against limited diffusion in thicker slices: Jusiak, 1970)
is in neglecting to account for other gaseous metabolites (Dudka,
et al., 1971; Maharajh and Walkley, 1972) than oxygen and carbon
dioxide, of which ammonia is likely to be the most important by far.
Tashiro (1922) observed ammonia production in nerve and muscle,
which increased when the tissue was stimulated. Needham (1942)
wrote that ammonia is not likely to be produced by embryonic tissue

‘unless sufficient carbohydrate is not available, implying that it
results from protein catabolism. A popular contemporary argument

~ (Lowenstein, 1972) is that ammonia emission results from the activity
of adenylate deaminase, but in many cases glutamic dehydrogenase
seems a more likely enzyme. In estrogen stimulation protein
synthesis and turnover are accelerated (Mueller, 1968); glutamic

acid is an important link between carbohydrate metabolism and
74

proteins, and is also closely related to synthesis of pyrroles.

Aspartate, however, seems to be the first amino acid synthesized

after estrogenic stimulation (Jervel1l, et al., 1958), probably by

amination of oxaloacetate (Barker and Warren, 1966). Glutamate
dehydrogenase may have alanine dehydrogenase activity when dissociated
into subunits. Estrogen can regulate this dissociation and change
of activity, probably by increasing the supply of NADH (Tomkins,
et al., 1961). Estrogen-increased L-alanine pyruvate conversion by
this form of glutamate dehydrogenase would account for some of the
diversion of pyruvate into protein synthesis. Lacking carbohydrate,
a reversal of the reaction could form pyruvate, with a high rate
of protein catabolism and production of ammonia. (A shift of
the enzyme activity away from glutamate dehydrogenase may spare
glutamate for synthesis of §-levulin acid, and porphyrins.)
Senescent uterus has reduced glycogen levels in pregnancy
(Connors, 1969), and if this lack of glycogen exists in the cycling
senescent uterus, or if the rate of metabolism is high in relation
to available carbohydrate, aged uterus may release more ammonia
than young uterus. in vitro, where small glycogen deposits may ‘be
quickly consumed and no external glucose is provided, the tissue
with the highest metabolic rate will probably release the most
ammonia, and if this is not taken into account, the manometric /
method will read this as diminished oxygen consumption. In the
first measurements, samples often showed negative "oxygen consumption,"

and this occurred more often with senescent tissue, especially
75

myometrium, and probably was intensified by delay in preparing the
tissue. Although the literature on uterine oxygen consumption does
not mention this problem, it may be a general factor in measurements
of oxygen consumption, When sulfuric acid was added to the vessel
side arms, oxygen consumption measurements became consistently
positive and rates became more consistent, especially in the case
of senescent tissue.

Dissolved oxygen measurements would tend to show alteration
in the opposite direction when ammonia is released, so additional
measurements were made in the Beckman apparatus. | No removal of
ammonia is possible in this case, so the data should be considered
only in relation to the manometric data, unless it can be assumed
that the much shorter time needed to get measurements eliminates
the factor of ammonia production.

. Increased oxygen consumption by estrogen~activated tissue does
not imply increased mitochondrial oxidation, coupled to phosphory-
lation or not. Lucas et al. (1955) determined that what had been
assumed to be elevated cytochrome oxidase activity was actually
the NADH~oxidase activity of peroxidase. Wilson (1969) reported
the puzzling observation that estrogen increased the activity of
only malate dehydrogenase of all the citric acid cycle enzymes,
and that others may have decreased. It is interesting that MDH
is one of the few enzymes known to increase in some tissues in

senescence (Finch, 1972). The carboxylation of pyruvate to oxalo~
76

acetate, followed by amination to form aspartic acid (Barker and
Warren, 1966; Jervell, et al., 1958)may have its equivalent in
this situation, viz., production of oxaloacetate for amino acid
formation,

Barker, Nielson, and Warren (1966) claim that lipid synthesis,

mediated by NADP’, regulates the hexose monophosphate shunt.

(Elsewhere it has been suggested how a cytoplasmic phase change

could accelerate lipid synthesis: Peat and Sederwall, 1972).

They found that the specific activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydro~
genase decreased significantly during an early period in which G6P
and 6PG were being oxidized at an increased rate. Activation of
either lipid synthesis or oxidation of NADPH would be able to

stimulate this pathway.

Oxygen Tension

The measurements of intrauterine pO, that have been made with

2
the Beckman microelectrode inserted through an 18 gauge arterial
needle (Yochim and Clark, 1971; Mitchell and Yochim, 1968, 1969b;
Salderini and Yochim, 1967) are apparent ly inaccurately high.

The sharp end, and additional thickness, possibly cause still~

oxygenated blood to be freed into the cavity surrounding the electrode

‘tip, where it would not be subject to oxidation by the tissue,

The cyclic variation of about 20 mm Hg po, could be a further

artifact, since the electrode itself reduces oxygen and will quickly
77

lower the oxygen tension of a ‘small volume of fluid that is not
stirred. The end of the needle immobilises a few microliters of
liquid. Periodic contractions of the uterus would replace the
fluid in the tip of the needle with fresh blood (or other
oxygenated fluid produced by introducing the electrode) from elsewhere
in the lumen. This procedure gave measurements in the hamster's
uterus that were about the same as those obtained by Yochim and
others in the rat, except that instead of one minute cycles, in the
hamster the cycles were about three to four minutes long. Different
‘means or maxima determined by this method would therefore reflect
indirectly the rate of oxygen consumption by measur ing the level
of oxygen present in the blood which: is released into the lumen.
The rate of oxygen consumption would not be entirely unrelated to
tissue po, (Yochim, 1971), but it would present an entirely false
picture of the conditions experienced by the pre-implantation embryo. _
Using the “bare” electrode (with stainless steel jacket, but
no needle around it) with a diameter of 1.0 mm and a blunt tip, a
‘auch lower PO, was measured, and there was no cyclic change that
could be recorded. the oxygen tension is ‘so low that an accurate
absolute measurement is extremely difficult, but relative measure-
ments of differences between animals can be easily and clearly made.
The oxygen tensions observed are lower than any known mammalian )
tissue except cancer. Senescent animals" uteri had a po, in the

range of O-2 mm Hg, young animals in the range of 4-8 mm Hg, and
78

vitamin E treated senescent, 6-12 mm Hg. The color of the uterus
varied from maroon in the old animals to pale pink in the vit amin
E treated animals; young animals’ uteri were bright red.

At such low oxygen tension it might be advantageous to have
hemoglobin with high oxygen affinity; it has been reported that
sheep with hemoglobin A (with higher than normal oxygen affinity) are
better able to withstand the abortifacient effects of estrogenic
Pasture than are other sheep (Obst and Seamark, 1971). A lower

“unloading tension" would correspond to a lower tissue oxygen tension,

. with possibly adaptive effects, ‘such as a more controlled ‘or gradual

'xelease of oxygen. Oxygen consumption decreases at implantation

sites in the rat uterus at the time of implantation (Surani and

Heald, 1971), and this probably causes a rise in po, to Levels

the embryo requires. Progesterone by counteracting estrogen, may

be the cause (Goodland, et al., 1953). As early as the fourth day

‘of pregnancy there are greatly increased obstructions in the uterus,

probably from increased adhesiveness of the epithelium which at this

time is closing over the blastocysts. Even the "bare" electrode has

to be forced if it travels more than a centimeter from the opening,
and obviously is causing luminal bleeding. The force required was
such that at one obstruction the electrode passed entirely through
the wall of the uterus. Before hitting an obstruction the pO,
reading was 40 mm Hg, which might have been high because of being

near the opening, though the soft and abundant endometrium formed
79

a seal. Beyond the obstruct ions the po, measured 5-10 mm Hg, or

about that of the vitamin E treated cycling hamsters. The average
blood would be expected to have more oxygen than the respiring

tissue but if. the. deeper stromal or myometrial tissue were respiring
faster than the implanting epithelium, bleeding might cause a lowering
of pO,.

Yochim's system of measuring uterine luminal oxygen tension with
an arterial needle may be measuring something equivalent to the
“bulk” po, in organ culture, i.e., possibly uterine fluid that has
been contaminated with oxygenated blood or gas introduced with the
needle, so they. are possibly. correct about the effect of pO, on
LDH isozyme proportions in the uterus, which they compare to the
‘effects in cultured uteri.

However, the po. at the surface of the cell in culture, where
the effect of po, on LDH isozymes is to be studied, will be much
lower, because of an 0 gradient in the unstirred layer. A bare
electrode, able to contact the epithelial tissue in the uterus, and
less Likely to cause bleeding, would probably more closely approach

the po. actually experienced by tissue either in vivo or in culture,

The pO, Yochim's group measured would not, according to Needham's
review (1931), be low enough to approach limitation of embryonic
development. However, when the lumen "surface" po, is measured,
by the bare electrode, the tension is seen to be close to that which

limits respiration and development of embryos; the actual po,
80

the embryo experienced in the experiments reviewed by Needham is not
known, nor is the actual pO. in the old hamster's uterus, since it
is at the extreme lower limit of the measuring system's capacity.

A better technique is needed, to determine the real minimum.

ITC Reduction

The reduction of triphenyl tetrazolium chloride is considered
to reflect dehydrogenase activity (Racker, 1955; Novikoff, 1959)
or the cell's reductive capacity, including substrate availability,

and is believed to be one of the most sensitive indicators of

‘estrogenic stimulation. it is known to accurately correspond to

Qo, in many tissues (Cascarano and Zweifach, 1955). Martin (1959)

has reported that the TIC reducing response of the ovariectomized
mouse vagina to exogenous estrogen is linear in relation to dosage
from about two picograms of estradiol per mouse up to about one
microgram. Estrogen increases phosphorylase activity (Takeuchi,

et al., 1962) and ATPase activity, so would tend to release inhibition
of glycolytic enzymes while providing increased amounts of glucose.
Ammonia is a very effective activator of phosphofructokinase, and

may be produced by cell activation (Lowenstein, 1972). The production

of NADH would therefore be increased. The earliest effect of estrogen

‘may be on glycolysis, rather than on respiration (Roberts and

Szego, 1953). Since estrogen causes "induction" of peroxidase,
which has NADH oxidase activity (for which estrogen serves as a

coenzyme: Beard and Hollander, 1962), at least part of the increased
81

NADH would tend to reduce oxygen by this short-circuit route,
‘dimereasing oxygen consumption without necessarily increasing usable
oxidative energy production. That is, an extramitochondrial
uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation could occur through these
known enzymic effects of estrogen. Whatever the mechanism, increased
oxygen consumption must lower the pO, of a tissue if circulation
doesn't increase proportionately. According to Yochim, et al. (1971)
circulation doesn't increase as fast as the mass of tissue increases,
under estrogenic stimulation. With the rapid "uptake" of water (or
possibly metabolic production of water) immediately after estrogen -
treatment, the average distance of cytoplasm from capillaries must
increase, which would possibly decrease the efficiency of tissue
oxygenation. -

The fact that the senescent hamster uterus shows distinctly
increased TTC reduction is probably the best evidence that senescent
sterility is the result of an active physiological process (or
malfunction). Schultz (1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968) has found
that strain differences in rats suggestive of estrogen differences

correlate with fertility and TTC reduction. Selection for large

_ bodies produced low uterine TIC reduction and large litters, while

selection for small bodies produced high uterine TTC reduction,

and small litters. He also found increased TTC reduction at the
time of senescent litter loss by resorption in rats.

Racker 's (1955) “nothing dehydrogenase" of well-dialyzed protein

fractions, which give a strong nitroprusside reaction, reducesNAD —
82

or NADP without the addition of substrate, and the reduced
nucleotide can then reduce tetrazolium. Racker and others have
guessed that protein SH groups are the source of this reducing
capacity. The present tendency is probably to assume that starches
or fats contaminate the protein fraction and provide the reductive
capacity. However, G. Ungar (1957, 1959) has presented some evidence
to support the view that cell excitation involves an increase of
protein SH groups, resulting from conformation changes or "partial
denaturation" after excitation or hormone treatment. The technique
of determining uterine protein SH concentration is very hard to

use reliably, but might eventually be useful to study the more
exact nature of the uterine reducing capacity which changes with

age and estrogen treatment.

Age Pigment

Uterine "age pigment," which develops in the presence of estrogen
and vitamin E deficiency (Kaunitz, et al., 1949), is not noticeably
soluble in ethanol, benzene, benzyl benzoate, acetone, or chloroform,
but is highly soluble in alkaline pyridine solution which is an
excellent bile pigment solvent, and is partly soluble in ether,
which is also a solvent for certain bile pigments (With, 1968),
and the spectrum is somewhat similar to that of a blood extract.

The presence of an ether soluble fraction of bile pigment of a
83

certain magnitude in human serum is considered to be indicative

of cancer (With, 1968). Bjorkerud (1964) has observed that age
pigment has NADH oxidase activity, and contains the heme group.

Aged uteri (Zinkat, 1931) contain remarkably large amounts of iron,
which might be bound by the hemes. The fact that the pigments appear
under conditions in which red blood cells are hemolyzing rapidly,
further supports the possibility that they are porphyrin-related
(Gyorgy and Rose, 1949). Bjorkerud (1964) also observed that this
NADH oxidase activity of the pigment is cold-inactivated, which

tends to support the theory of entropic activation of oxygen

consumption (Peat and Soderwall, 1972).

NYMR

The evidence is very good that water near interfaces is
structured differently from bulk water (Drost-Hansen, 1971, 1972).
Probably the most dramatic demonstration was Shereshevsky's (1928)
experiment showing very low vapor pressure of the water in capillary
tubes. What is still in dispute is whether the particular structure
induced by a surface represents an intrinsic "phase” or crystal-
like state of water (Drost-Hansen, 1971, 1972), or whether the
particular repeating pattern of the surface (such as a macromolecule)
imposes its structure onto the water (Ling, 1972). It has been
pointed out that enzyme biochemists (the "Pauling School")
emphasize the role of ionic side chains of proteins in ordering

(or binding) water, while the fiber chemists emphasize the role
84

of the protein backbone (Ling, 1972). “Since estrogen stimulation

involves a decrease in protein, DNA, and RNA concentration, because
of the great increase in water concentration, the average distance
of intra-cellular water from macromolecular surfaces must increase,

and this should mean that the water molecules experience fewer

- restrictions of orientation, High resolution NMR spectra show a

distinct broadening of the water line in tissue, relative to bulk
water, and less broadening (with a shift upfield) in estrogen- |
treated uterus than in atrophic uterus from ovariectomized hamsters.
old uteri were not significant ly different from young uteri, and
both were intermediate between tissue from ovariectomized and
estrogen~treated animals, The method, of course, can't determine

the quantity of extracellular and intracellular water, unless their

‘movement or shielding is very different, and this apparently is not

the case. Diffusion, proton exchange, paramagnetic sons, and lipids
are all probable sources of error in this method.

Spin echo NMR can eliminate the possibility that the line

broadening results from proton exchange, and shows a slight difference

between old and young uteri, as well as between estrogen-treated
and untreated young animals, with young uteri showing the greatest |
difference from bulk water. The old uteri, by being intermediate
between younger uteri and bulk water, are somewhat analogous to the
malignant tumors in Damadian's study (1971). Even very dense

connective tissue (rat knee joint) responds to irritation by a
85

similar change in water relaxation time, without a large uptake of

water (Rokityanskiy and Yakimov, 1971).

Harderian Fluorescence

This strain of hamsters apparently has less active porphyrin
secretion from the Harderian glands than do many other rodents,
uniess their diet is simply richer in B vitamins. A B vitamin
(especially pantothenic acid) deficiency is known to cause
increased porphyrin secretion by the Harderian glands. Since
World War iI, animal feeds have become more standardized and are
‘generally supplemented vith adequate vitamins, and this may account
for the loss of interest in the Harderian glands and their porphyrin )
secretions. Most (about 80%) barely senescent (14 months) hamsters
that have been examined in this lab showed no fluorescence of the
eye socket, or only a weak green fluorescence. Beyond this age,
however, the typical bright red fluorescence becomes more common,
By the time their body weight begins to decrease, which is usually
“after 15 months, most of the females showed some red fluorescence,
but no male did. This is consistent with the observations of
Strong (1942) and Figge (1942) regarding the relation of the
secretion to estrogen (no males showed fluorescence) and possibly
to ‘the likelihood of an animal to develop cancer. Its appearance
around the time of reproductive senescence suggests that the liver

function may be decreasing at this time, and that the pigment may be
86

' related to the altered uterine metabolism.

Porphyrins are synergistic with estrogen, as well as with
carcinogens (Strong, 1942; Figge, et al., 1942; Bittner and Watson, ;
1946; Kennedy, 1970), and the pyrroles and porphyrins are also
conjugated by the liver for excretion via the kidneys. With liver
damage, they accumulate, causing porphyria (With, 1968). At
least in rodents, concentration of porphyrins in the Hardertan
glands corresponds to estrogen levels and to the tendency to develop
cancer, as well as to deficiencies of the B vitamins essential for

liver conjugation (Figge, 19445 Hoffman, 1972),

Uterine Weight, Water Content, and Thickness

Organ weight has been said to be a more sensitive index to

metabolic change than any other single condition (Criscuolo, et al.,

1955; Rusin, 1971). All dimensions of the hamster uterus that were .
observed, diameter, thickness of endometrium and myometrium, and

total weight, increased with age. Water. content of the myometrium

decreased with age, but there was no significant difference between

young and old endometria's water content.

Though all parts of the old uterus are enlarged, the biggest
change with age appears to be the thickness of the myometrium.
A large part of the collagen that accumulates with age is in the
myometrium (Loeb, 1939). | i |

Estrogen inhibits collagenase (Jeffrey, et al., 1971; Woessner,

1968) and increases collagen synthesis (Henneman, 1968; Kao, get al.,
87

1964). Loeb (1939) found that estrogen and age both cause collagen
accumulation in the uterus. Schaub (1965) found a three-fold
iricrease of uterine collagen in the aged rat, and observed the same
age changes (crosslinking) that occur in other tissues.

Finn (1963) found that collagen accumulates in mouse uterus
with age, both in a barren uterine horn and in a repeatedly pregnant
horn, when the mouse was unilaterally ovariectomized. This weakens
the arguments that maintain that collagen formation is largely
. the result of mechanical stress.

Alkaline phosphatase activity increases with estrogenic
stimulation. Therefore, if excessive estrogenic stimulation is
responsible for the failure of implantation in senescent animals
becawe of an inadequate level of progesterone, alkaline phosphatase
‘activity should be demonstrable, ,

| In slides prepared by T. J. Connors for a study of enzyme
"changes in implantation (1969), at all times examined--days 3 1/2,
4,4 1/2--the epithelium of the senescent uterus was more intensely
stained. “the senescent stroma was more intensely stained on day
4 1/2, but on day four it was in several cases more lightly
stained than in the young. . | _

Since the decidual cell reaction (to an artificial stimulus,

‘viz., the injection of air: Stockton, 1972) is delayed by about

twelve hours in the old hamster (and also fails to produce a weight
88

increase as great as in the young animal), this difference in
stromal alkaline phosphatase probably corresponds to that delay.

' Horikoshi and Wiest (1971), among others, have attributed "uterine
refractoriness" to a small progesterone/estrogen ratio.

The epithelial reaction, however, seems to reflect a chronic
difference. The senescent myometrium stains nearly as much as the
endometrial stroma, but the young myometrium is almost unstained,
on all days examined. Again, this suggests a possible chronic

difference in degree of “estrogenic" stimulation.

An Organismic Change

These diverse but interlocked observations suggest that a
Profound reorganization, probably consisting of many compensatory
tissue responses to the altered internal environment, occurs during
aging. It seems that these changes may be most easily observable
in the female mammal, but analogous processes may be practically
universal. The mutual adjustment of many parts of a system makes
the evaluation of a single component~=such as estrogen--very difficult
and ambiguous, yet the "meaning" of the configuration to the organism:
is reasonably consistent and determinate. If the many relevant
components of the system can be identified, then it should be possible
to evaluate each part without ambiguity. A partial example is the
estrogen/progesterone ratio, but it will probably eventually be

possible to interpret quantitatively the concentration of other
89

hormones (especially the.salt and sugar regulators), the density
and composition of connective tissue, composition of bile pigments,
. enzymes, etc. For an organismic process, such as aging, it will be

appropriate to have precise and quantifiable organismic concepts.
90

CONCLUSION

Several methods were used to characterize the physiological
state of the hamster uterus, with regard to oxygen metabolism, in

two age groups, young and senescent. Most of the factors studied

were consistent with the concept that the aged uteri are in a.

relatively "estrogenic" state, but this does not necessarily imply
an elevated concentration of steroid estrogens. Factors such as

vitamin E deficiency, age pigment deposits, porphyria, ammonia, collagen

accumulation, and progesterone deficiency could promote this state,

as well as possibly elevated levels of adrenal or ovarian estrogens
or other hormones such as catecholamines, In senescent animals

oxygen consumption was increased, TTC reduction was high (TTC

reduction may simply reflect the oxidative capacity--Cascarano and

Zweifach, 1955), catalase was low, peroxidase and uterine pigment

were high, and uterine weight was increased considerably. Oxygen
tension of the uterine lumen was extremely low in cycling animals
of all ages, but was distinctly lower in senescent animals. These
changes might be ascribed to a mere vitamin E deficiency, except
that the requirement for vitamin E is a function of age. It is
possible that vitamin E's “oxygen sparing" effect may be responsible
for its effect on reproduction, as it seems to be for its effect

in cardiac angina. Considering the anti-fertility effects of small
91

amounts of exogenous estrogen, it is suggested that this state is
responsible for senescent infertility, and it is proposed that
luminal oxygen tension may be the crucial factor in both the
artificially induced estrogenic sterility and in senescent sterility,
Since any irritation promotes estrogen binding by the uterus, the
oxygen effect may be even more general. The extraordinarily low
oxygen tension recorded in the lumens of both young and senescent
ahmsters~-apparently Lower (especially in the older animals) than
any mammalian tissue that has been studied except cancer--suggests
that a drastic increase of oxygen tension must be achieved around

. the time of implantation if the embryos are to survive. A few
measurements suggested that this is the case, and a similar change
has been reported in other animals, but the closure of the lumen )
at the time of implantation makes measurements at that time very
questionable. If the equivalence of TIC reduction to Qo, can be
accepted, then a study of age differences in TIC reduction by
uterine tissues at implantation sites throughout pregnancy would

be a very desirable step in confirming this mechanism.
92

REFERENCES

Adams, C, E, (1970) Ageing and reproduction in the female mammal
with particular reference to the rabbit. J. Reprod. Fertil.
12: 9-16.

Adams, D. H. (1955) Liver catalase in the riboflavin-deficient
mouse. Biochem. J. 60: 568.

Alexander, P. and D, I. Connell (1963) The failure of the potent
mutagenic chemical, ethyl methane sulphonate, to shorten the
life-span of mice, In: “Cellular Basis and Aetiology of Late
Somatic Effects of Ionizing Radiation"(R.J.C. Harris, ed.),

p. 259. Academic Press, N. Y.

Allfrey, V. G., R. Meudt, J.'W. Hopkins, and A, EB Mirsky (1964)
Sodium-dependent ‘transport' reactions in the cell nucleus
and their role in protein and nucleic acid synthesis.

Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 47: 907.

Angelova-Gateva, P. (1969) Tissue respiration and glycolysis in
quadriceps femoris and heart of rats of different ages during
hypodynamia. Exp. Geront. 4: 177.

Armstrong, D. T.. and E. R. King (1971) Uterine progesterone metabolism
and progestational response: effects of estrogens and prolactin,

Endocrinol. 89: 191, bese

Arvay, A., I. Takacs, P. Ladanyi, A. Balogh, and K. Benko (1971)
The effect of intensive nervous stimulation on certain
physico-chemical properties of rat tail tendon and uterus
collagen. -Gerontologia 17: 157-169.

Atkinson, D. E, (1971) Limitation of metabolite concentrations and
the conservation of solvent capacity in the living cell.
Ann. N. ¥. Acad. Sci. 52(3): 68-71.

Atkinson, W. B., H. Kaunitz, and C, A. Slanetz (1949) Ovarian
hormones and uterine pigment ation in vitamin E deficiency.
Fed. Proc. 8: 349.

Auletta, F. J. (1971) Effect of epinephrine on implantation and
foetal survival in the rabbit. J. Reprod. Fert. 27: 281-282.
93

Auerbach, R. (1970) Presentation at Immunology Symposium,
University of Oregon, November, 1970,

Baird, M. B. and H. V. S. Amis (1971) Regulation of catalase. activity
: ‘in mice of different ages. Gerontologia 17: 105-115.

Baird, S, L. Jv., G. Karreman, H, Mueller, A. Szent-Gyorgyi (1957)
Ionic semipermeability as a bulk property. Proc. Nat. Acad,
‘Sci, 43: 705-708,

Baker, S. P,, N. W. Shock and A, H. Norris (1962) Influence of age
and obesity in women on basal oxygen consumption expressed in
terms of total body water and intracellular water. In:
"Biological Aspects of Aging",(N. W. Shock, ed.), pe 84.
Columbia University Press, New York.

Barker, K, L., M. H. Nielson, J, C, Warren (1966) Estrogen control
of uterine carbohydrate metabolism: Factors affecting
glucose utilization. Endocrinol. 79: 1069.

- Barker, K, L. and J, C. Warren (1966) Estrogen control of carbohydrate
metabolism in the rat uterus: Pathways of glucose metabolism,
“Endocrinol. 78: 1205-1212.

Barnett, S. A. and K, M. H. Munro (1971) Persistent corpora lutea
of. mice in a cold environment. Nature 232: 406-407.

Battellino, L. J.; J. Sabulsky and A. Blanco (1971) Lactate
dehydrogenase iso-enzymes in rat uterus: Changes during
pregnancy. J. Reprod. Fert. 25: 393399.

Beard, J. and P. Hollander (1962) The nature of uterine phenol=
activated oxidation of DPNH. Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 96: 592
600. .

Bell, E. (1971) Report on First. International Conference on Cell
Differentiation, sections I and IV: Embryology and Cell
Biology. Dev. Biol. 26(3): 505.

Biggers, J. D. (1969) Problems concerning the uterine causes of
embryonic death, with special reference to the effects of
aging on the uterus. J. Reprod. Fert. Suppl. 8: 27-43.

Biggers, J. D. (1971) New observations on the nutrition of the
mammalian oocyte and the preimplantation embryo. In:
"Biology of the Blastocyst", (R. J. Blandau, ed.), p. 319.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
94

Biskind, M. S,. (1946) Nutritional therapy of endocrine disturbances.
Vitamins and Hormones 4: 147-170.

Bjorkerud, S. and J. T, Cummins (1963) Selected enzymic studies of
lipofuscin granules isolated from bovine cardiac muscle,
Exp. Cell Res. 32: 510.

Bjorkerud, S. (1964) Isolated lipofuscin granules. A survey of a
new field. In: "Advances in Gerontological Research,"' Vol.
I, (B. L. Strehler, ed.), p. 257. Acad. Press, N. Y.

Blaha, G, C. (1971) Ovarian steroid dehydrogenase and plasma
progesterone levels in aged golden hamsters. Anat. Rec. 169:
279 (abstr).

Blaha, G. C. (1964) Reproductive senescence in the golden hamster.
Anat. Rec. 150: 405-412.

 Blandau, R. Jey He Kaunitz, C. A. Slanets (1949) Ovulation,

fertilization, and transport of ova in old, vitemin-E-
deficient rats. J. Nut. 38: 97.

Bloch, S. (1961) Untersuchungen uber Klimakterium und Menopause on
_ Albino-Ratten. III Mitleitung. Gynaecologia 152: 414.

Bo, W. J., W. Le Poteat, W. A. Krueger, and F. McAlister (1971)
The effect of progesterone on estradiol-174 -dipropionate-
induced wet weight, percent water, and glycogen of the rat
uterus. Life Science 6,

Boag, J. W. (1970) Cell respiration as a function of oxygen tension,
Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 18(5): 474-478.

Boling, J. Le, R. J. Blandau, J. F. Wilson, W. C, Young (1939)
Post-parturitional heat responses of new-born and adult
guinea pigs. Data on partutition. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.
Med, 42: 128.

Boulos, B. M., M. MacDougall, D. W. Shoeman, D, L. Azarnoff (1972)
Evidence that inhibition of hepatic drug oxidation by tumors
is mediated by a circulating humor. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol,
Med. 139(4): 1353-1355.

Brent, R. L. (1964) Modification of the teratogenic and lethal
effects of irradiation to the mammalian fetus. In: "Effects
of Ionizing Radiation on the Reproductive System"(W. D. Carlson
and F, X. Gassner, eds.), MacMillan, N. Y.
95

Brinster, R. Le (1971) Mammalian embryonic metabolism. In:
“Biology of the Blastocyst" (R. J. Blandau, ed.), University
of Chicago Press, Chicago.

Brooksby, G., F. Sahinin and A. L. Soderwall (1964) X-Irradiation
effects on reproductive function in the female hamster.
In: “Effects of Lonizing Radiation on the Reproductive System"
(W. D. Carlson and F. X. Gassner, eds.), MacMillan, New York.

Brown, S. We; G. M. Krise, H. B. Pace and J. DeBoer (1964) Effect
of continuous radiation on reproductive capacity. In: "Effects
of Ionizing Radiation on the Reproductive System: (W. D.
Carlson and F, X, Gassner, eds.), p. 103. MacMillan, N. Y,

Bruce, N. W. (1972) Resistance of the rat embryo to ligation of
a uterine artery early in gestation. J. Reprod, Fert. 28: 265-267,

Bullough, W. S, (1971) Ageing of mammals. Nature 229: 608-610.

Burack, E., J. M, Wolfe, W. Lansing and A, W. Wright (1941)
The effect of age upon the connective tissue of the uterus,
cervix, and vagina of the rat. Cancer Res. 1: 227.

Butturini, V. (1949) Clinical and experimental studies in vitamin E.
Ann. N. ¥. Acad. Sci. 52(3): 397-405.

Bykhovtsova, T. L. (1970) The effect of ginseng and eleutherococcus
root preparations on carbohydrate metabolism, iIsvestiya
Akademia Nauk SSSR, Seriya Biologicheskaya, No. 6: 916.

Cahn, D. (1964) Developmental changes in embryonic enzyme patterns:
The effect of oxidative substrates on lactic dehydrogenase
in beating chick embryonic heart cell cultures. Devel. Biol.
9: 327-346.

Calloway, N. 0. and B, S. Kujak (1966) Patterns of water, ash and
organic-matter changes in senescence, J. Am. Ger. Soc. 14: 505.

Carpenter, D. G. and J, A. Loynd (1968) An integrated theory of
aging. J. Amer. Ger. Soc. 16(12),

Casarett, G. W. (1963) Concept and criteria of radiologic ageing.
In: “Cellular Basis and Aetiology of Late Somatic Effects
of Ionizing Radiation” (R. J. C. Harris, ed.), p. 189.
Academic Press, N. Y. ;

Cascarano, J. and B. W. Zweifach (1955) Comparative histochemical
and quantitative study of adrenal and kidney tissue by
tetrazolium technique. J. Histochem. Cytochem. 3: 369.

Nay,
96

Challis, J. R. G., R. Be Heap and D. V. Illingworth (1971)
Concentrations of oestrogen and progesterone in the plasma of
non-pregnant and pregnant and Lactating guinea-pigs.

J. Endocr. 51: 333345.

Chatterjee, I. B. and R. W. McKee (1965) Biosynthesis of L-ascorbic
acid in rat liver microsomes: Influences of age, sex, dietary
changes, and whole-body X-irradiation. Arch. Biochem. Biophys.
109; 62,

Chatterjee, 8. N., V. P. Kambo3 and A. B. Kar (1971) Effect of
intrauterine contraceptive suture on corpura lutea of guinea-~
pigs. Indian J. Exp. Biol. 9: 105.

_ Chvapil, M., J. Hurych,. E. Mirejovska (1970) Effect of long term

hypoxia on protein synthesis in granuloma and ‘in some organs
in rats. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 135: 613-617.

Clark, H. and E. Gurpide (1972) Measurement of the solubility of
progesterone under competitive protein binding assay conditions.
J. Clin. Endocr. Metab, 34: 1085,

Clark, s. W. and J, M. Yochim (1971) Lactic dehydrogenase in the
rat uterus during progestation, its relation to intrauterine
oxygen tension and the regulation of glycolysis. Biol. of
Reprod. 5: 152-160.

Claus, E, P., V. E. Tyler and L. R. Brady (1970) "Pharmacognosy. "
Lea: and Febiger, Philadelphia... ©

Clinch, J. and V. R. ‘Tindall (1969) Br. Med. J. 5644: 602-605.

Confort, A. (1964) "Mechanisms of ageing, the biology of senescence."
Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, N XY.

Comfort, A. (1969) Geriatric Focus 8(17): 1.

Comolli, R. (1971) Hydrolase activity and intracellular pH in liver,
heart and diaphragm of aging rats. Exper. Geront. 6(3): 219.

Cone, C, Des Jr. (1970) Variation of the transmembrane potential
level as a basic mechanism of mitosis control. Oncology (Basel)
24(6): 438.
97

Connors, T. J. (1969) Reproductive senescence in the golden hamster:
Early development and implantation of the blastocyst. Ph. D.
Dissertation, University of Oregon, Eugene.

Connors, T. J., Le W. Thorpe and A, L. Soderwall (1972) An analysis
of preimplantation embryonic death in senescent holden hamsters.
Biol. Reprod. &: 131-135, ‘ 7

Cowdry, E. V. (1952) p. 672 In: "Problems of Aging", 3rd Ed.
(A. I. Lansing, ed.) Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore.

Crile, G. W. (1941) "Intelligence, Power and Personality."
McGraw-Hill, N. Y. ‘

Csapo, A. (1950) Actomyosin formation by estrogen action. Amer. J.
Physiol. 162: 406. -

Damadian, R. (1971) Tumor initiation by nuclear magnetic resonance.
Science 171: 1151. me =. ;

Daniel, C. W., K. B. deOme, L. J. T, Young, P, B. Blair and L. J.
Faulkin, Jr. (1968) The in vivo life span of normal and
. Preneoplastic mouse mammary glands: A serial transplant at ion
study. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. 61(1): 53.

Daniel, c. W. and L. J. T. Young (1971) Influence of cell division
on an aging process. Exp. cell Res. 65: 27.

Daniel, J. C., Jr. (1964) Some effects of steroids on cleavage of rabbit
eggs in vitro. Endocrinol. 75: 706.

Daniel, C. W., L, J. T. Young, D, Medina and K. B, deOme (1971)
The influence of mammogenic hormones on serially transplanted
mouse mammary gland. Exp. Geront. 6: 95,

Dawkins, R. (1971) Selective neurone death as a possible menory
mechanism. Nature 229: 118.

Dawson, D. M., T. L. Goodfriend, N. O. Kaplan (1964) Lactic
dehydrogenases: functions of the two types. Science 143:
929-933.

Devik, F. (1963) The effect of X-irradiation compared to an apparently
specific early effect of skin carcinogens. In: "Cellular
Basis and Aetiology of Late Somatic Effects of Ionizing
Radiation" (R, J. C. Harris, ed.). Academic Press, N. Y,

De Waard, F. and J. H. H. Thijssen (1970) Relationship between
hormonal cytology and steroid excretion in post-menopausal
women. Endocrinol, 48(4): xxxvi-xxxvii.

Diczfalusy, E., G. Notter and R. Nissen-Meyer (1964) Influence of.
ovarian irradiation on urinary estrogens. In: "Effects of
Yonizing Radiation on the Reproductive System (W. D. Carlson
and F, X, Gassner, eds.), p. 394. MacMillan, N. Y.

Dove, G. A., F. Morley, A. Batchelor and S, F, Lunn (1971)
Oestrogenic function in postmenopausal women. J. Reprod. Fert.
24: 1-8, .

Dreisback, R. A. (1959) The effects of steroid hormones on pregnant
rats. J. Endocrin, 18: 271.

Drost-Hansen, W. (1970) Structure and properties of water near
biological interfaces. Lab. for Water Res., Coral Gables.

Drost-Hansen, W. (1972) Phase transitions in biological systems=- -
manifestations of cooperative processes in vicinal water.
Paper presented at New York Acad. of Sci. Internat. Conference
on Interactions of Ions and Water with Macromolecules and
Biological Systems, January, 1972, N. Y.

Drummond, J. C., R. Le Noble and M. D. Wright (1939) Studies on

the relationship of vitamin E (tocopherols) to the endocrine
_ system. J. Endocrin, 1: 275.

Dubina, T. L. (1970) Effect of complexons on the aging process,
Dokl. Akad. Nauk BSSR 14(9): 860.

Dudka, L. T.5 H. J. Inglis, R. E. Johnson, J. M. Pechinski and
S- Plowman (1971) Inequality of inspired and expired gaseous
nitrogen in man. Nature 232: 265,

Dutra de Oliveira, J. (1949) The Shute test for checking unbalance
produced by lack of vitamin E. Ann. N. ¥. Acad. Sci. 52(3): 325.

Edgren, R. A., D, Peterson, M. A. Johnson and G. C. Shipley (1961)
Possible progesterone-blockage of estrogen~induced interrupt ion
of pregnancy in rats. Fert. and Ster. 12(2)..

Eisenfeld, A, J. and J, Axelrod (1966) Effect of steroid hormones,
ovariectomy, estrogen pretreatment, sex and immaturity on the
distribution of H-estradiol, Endocrinol. 78: 38-42.

Elftran, H., H. Kaunitz and C. A. Slanetz (1949) Histochemistry
of uterine pigment in vitamin E-deficient rats. Ann. N. Y.
Acad. Sci. 52: 72. _

Emerson, G, A, and H. M. Evans (1939) Restoration of fertility
in successively older E~low female rats. J. Nutr. 18: 501,
99

Engel, Le. L. (1970) Eli Lilly Lecture: Estrogen Metabolism and
Action. Endocrin. 87(5): 827.

Ermini, M. (1970) Das Altern der Skelettmuskulatur. Gerontologia
16: 65-71.

Everitt, A. V. (1971) Food intake, growth and the aging of collagen
in rat tail tendon. Gerontologia 17: 98-104,

Falk, J. E., R. J. Porra, A, Brown, F. Moss and He E. Larminie (1959)
Effect of oxygen tension on haem and porphyrin biosynthesis,
Nature 184; 1217.

Farley, T, M., J. Scholler, J, L. Smith, K. Folkers, C, D. Fitch.
(1967) Biochem. Biophys. 121: 625-632,

Fernandes, G., E, J. Yunis, J. Smith, R. Good (1972) Dietary influence
on breeding behavior, hemolytic anemia, and longevity in
NZB mice. Proc. Soc. for Exp. Biol. Med. 139(4): 11891196,

Field, E. J. (1967) The significance of astroglial hypertrophy
in scrapie, kuru, multiple sclerosis and old age together
with a note on the possible nature of the scrapie agent.
Deutsche Zeit. fur Nervenheilkunde 192: 265-274.

Figge, F. H. J., Le C.. Strong, L. C. Strong, Jr., and A. Shanbrom
(1942) Fluorescent porphyrins in Harderian glands and
susceptibility to spontaneous mammary carcinoma in mice.
Cancer Res. 2: 335.

Figge, H. J. (1945) The relationship of pyrrol compounds to
carcinogenesis. Res. Conf. on Cancer (1944) p. 117-128.

Finn, C. A. (1966) The initiation of the decidual cell reaction
in the uterus of the aged mouse. J. Reprod. Fert. il: 423-428,

Finn, C. A, (1970) The aging uterus and its influence on reproductive
capacity. J. Reprod. Fert. Suppl. 12: 31-38.

Finn, C. A. and C. W. Emmens (1961) The effect of dimethylstilboesterol
and oestradiol on deciduoma formation in the rat. J. Repr.
Fertil. 2: 528-529.

Finn, C, A., S. M. Fitch and R. D. Harkness (1963) Collagen
content of barren and previously pregnant uterine horns in
old mice. J. Reprod. Fert. 6: 405-407.
100

Finn, C, A. and L. Martin (1969) The cellular response of the uterus
of the aged mouse to oestrogen and progesterone. J. Reprod,
Fert. 20: 545547,

Fishman, W. B. (1950)Q-glucuronidase. In: "The Enzymes." (J. B.
Sumner and K. Myrback, eds.), Vol. A Part 1, p. 635.
Acadentic Press, N. ¥. .

Fishman, W. H. and S. Green (1957) Enzymic catalysis of glucuronyl
transfer. J. Biol. Chen,

Fishman, W. H., B. Springer and R. Brunetti (1948) Application of
an improved glucuronidase assay method to the study of human
blood @ -glucuronidase. J. Biol. Chem. 173: 449-456.

Fitch, C. D. (1968) Experimental anemia in primates due to vitamin
E deficiency, Vitamins and Hormones 26: 501-514,

Florkin, M., R. Crismer, G. Duchateau and R. Houvet (1942) Sur les
(8 ~glucuronides et la /2-glucuronidase. Enzymologia 10: 220,

Folk, G. E., Jr., R. E. Grindeland (1962) Effects of cold exposure

on the oestrous cycle of the golden hamster (Mesocricetus
auratus). J. Reprod. Fert. 4: 16.

Frampton, J. (1966) Increased oestrogen activity associated with
postmenopausal bleeding. J. Obstet. Gyn. Br. Commonw. 73: 137.

Fredricsson, B. (1969) Histochemistry of the oviduct. In: "The
Mammalian Oviduct" (E.S,E.Hafez and R.J. Blandau, eds.), p. 311.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.

Friedman, S. M., C. L. Friedman and M. Nakashima (1968) Adrenal-

neurohypophyseal regulation of electrolytes and work performance:
Age-related changes in the rat. In: "“Endocrines and Aging"
(L. Gitman, ed.). Thomas, Springfield.

Frolkis, V. V., V. V. Bezrukov, L. N. Bogatskaya, N. 8. Verkhratsky,
V. P. Zamostian, V. G, Shevtchuk and I, V. Shtchegoleva (1970)
Catecholamines in the metabolism and functions regulation
in aging. Gerontologia 16: 129- -140.

Fuhr, A., R, E. Johnson, H. Kaunitz and C. A. Slanetz (1949)
Increased tocopherol requirements during. the rat's menopause.
Ann. N, Y. Acad, Sei. 323 83-87.

Fujisawa, H. (1969) Changes in the isozyme patterns of Lactate
dehydrogenase (IDH) in the in vitro cultured muscle cells.
Embryologia 10(3-4): 256272. ,
101

Glenister, T. W. (1970) Ovo-implantation in vitro and its relation
to normal implantation. In: "Ovo-Implantation. Human Gonado~
tropins and Prolactin", pp. 73-85. Karger, N. Y.

Goldfischer, S. and J. Bernstein (1969) Lipofuscin (aging) pigment
granules of the newborn human liver. J. Cell Biol. 42: 253.

Gonzalez~Angulo, A., J. Rivadeneyra and J. Martinez-Manautou (1970)
' Mitochondrial deformities in liver cells after high doses of
estrogens. J. Cell Biol. 47: 74.

Goodfriend, T. L. and N.0, Kaplan (1964) Effects of hormone
administration on lactic dehydrogenase. J. Biol. Chem. 239(1):
130-135.

Goodland, R. L., J. G. Reynolds, A, B. McCoord, W. T. Pommerenke
(1953) Respiratory and electrolyte effects induced by estrogen
and progesterone. Fert. and Ster. 4(4): 300-317,

Gram, T, E, and J, R. Fouts (1966) Effect of of-tocopherol upon
lipid peroxidation and drug metabolism in hepatic microsomes.
Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 114: 331-335.

Greengard, 0. (1967) Specific enzyme responses in starved, glucagon-
treated or irradiated rats, and general consideration on the
mechanisms of induction in animals, Adv. in Enz. Reg. 5:
397-405.

Greenwald, G, S. (1957) Interruption of pregnancy in the rabbit by
the administration of estrogen. J. Exp. Zool. 135: 461.

Grinevich, M. A. and I, I, Brekhman (1970) Investigation of complex
formulations or oriental medicines and their components.
‘Comaunication #3: Tonic substances in the medicinal therapy
of oriental medicine. Rastitelnyya Resursy 6(4): 481.

Gross, M. (1961) Reproductive cycle biochemistry. Fert. & Ster.
12(3): 245.

Gurdon, J. B. (1962) The developmental capacity of nuclei taken from
intestinal epithelium cells of feeding tadpoles. J, Embryol.
Exp. Morph. 10: 622-640.

Gyorgy, P. and C, S,. Rose (1949) Tocopherol and hemolysis in vivo
and in vitro. Ann. N, ¥. Acad. Sci. 52: 231.
102

' Hahn, H. P. and E. Fritz (1966) Age-related alterations in the
structure of DNA: III, Thermal stability of rat liver DNA,
related to age, histone content, and tonic strength.
Gerontologia 12: 237.

Hehn, E. W. and R. Le Hays (1962) Modification of secondary sex _
ratio. J. Reprod, Fertil. 6: 409-411.

Hahn, E, W. and W, F, Ward (1969) The incidence of mating in X-
_. irradiated female rats. J. Reprod. Fertil, 20: 151-154.

Harkness, M. L. Rey R. D. Harkness and B. E. Moralee (1956)
Loss of collagen from the uterus of the rat after ovariectomy
and from the non-pregnant horn after parturition. Quart.
J. Exp. Physiol. 41: 254262.

_ Hazlewood, C, F., B. IL. Nichols, D. C, Chang and B,. Brown (1971)
On the state of water in developing muscle: A study of the
major phase of ordered water in skeletal muscle and its
relationship to sodium concentration. The Johns Hopkins
Med. J. 128(3): 117-131.

Henneman, D. H. (1968) Effect of estrogen on in vivo and in vitro
collagen biosynthesis and maturation in old and young female
guinea pigs. Endocrinol. 83: 678-690.

‘Hoffman, R. A, (1971) Influence of some endocrine glands, hormones
and blinding on the histology and porphyrins of the Harderian
glands of golden hamsters. Am. J. Anat. 132: 463-478.

Hollander, V. P. and M. L, Stephens (1959) Studies on phenol-activated
oxidation of reduced nucleotides by rat uterus. J. Biol. Chen.
234(7): 1901-1906.

Horikoshi, H. and W. G. Wiest (1971) Interrelationships between
estrogen and progesterone secretion and trauma-induced
deciduomata. On causes of uterine refractoriness in the
“Parlow Rat."" Endocrinol. 89: 807-817.

Houchin, 0,.B. (1942) The in vitro effect of @<-tocopherol and its
. phosphate derivative on oxidation in muscle tissue. J. Biol.
Chem. 146: 313-321.

Ingram, D. L. and A. M, Mandl (1958) The hypophysial control of
the X-ray sterilized ovary. J. Endocrin. 17: 1-12.

Jakubowska-Naziemblo, B. (1969) Effects of hypothalamic infusion of
extract from pregnant uterus on the length of sexual cycle in
guinea pigs. Acta Phys. Polonica 34(3)? 47.
103

Jeffery, J. Jo, R. J. Coffer and A, Z. Eisen (1971) Studies on
uterine collagenase in tissue culture. II, Effect of steroid
hormones on enzyme production. Biochim. et Biophys. Acta 252:
143-149,

Jellinck, P. H. and C, R. Lyttle (1971) Metabolism of gale oestradiol
by oestrogen-induced uterine peroxidase. Acta Endocrin. (Kbh)
Suppl. 155: 122,

Jensen, E, V.5 M. ‘Numata, S. Smith, T. Suzuki, P, I. Brecker,
and E, R. DeSombre (1967) Estrogen-receptor interaction in
target tissue. Dev. Biol. Suppl. 3: 151.

Jervell, K, F., C. R, Diniz, G. C, Mueller (1958) Early effects
of estradiol on nucleic acid metabolism in the rat uterus.
J. Biol. Chem. 231: 945.

Johansson, G. (1966) Influence of oxygen on the lactate dehydrogenase
isozyme pattern in Chang liver cells. Exp. Cell Res. 43:
95-97. )

_ Jones, A. W. (1972) Paper presented at N. Y. Acad. Sci. Intern.
Conf. on Interactions of Ions and Water with Macromolecules
and Biological Systems, Jan. 14, N. Y.

Jones, E, C. (1970) The ageing ovary and its influence on reproductive
capacitye J. Reprod. Fertil. Suppl. 12: 17-30.

Jusiak, R. (1970) Possible sources of errors in determinations of
tissue slices respiration. Acta Physiol. Pol. 21(4): 581*537.

Kao, K-Y. T., W. E. Hitt, A. T. Bush, and T, H, McGavack (1964)
Connective tissue. XII. Stimulating effects of estrogens on
collagen synthesis in rat uterine slices. Proc. Soc.

Exp. Biol, Med, Li7: 86-97.

Kar, A, B., Ve P. Kamboj, A, P. Chowdhury (1966) Effect of a foreign
body on oxygen consumption of the rat uterus. Curr. Sci. 35:3
543. ;

Kar, A. B., V. P. Kamboj, A, Goswami and S, R. Chowdhury (1965)
Effect of an intrauterine contraceptive suture on the uterus
and fertility of rats. J. Reprod. Fert. 9: 317.

Karkun, J. N.» Be Malviya and A, B. Kar (1969) Effect of intrauterine
contraceptive suture on biochemical composition of the rat
uterus during implantation. Indian J. Exp. Biol. 7(2): 118.

Karnaukhov, V. N. (1971) Role of carotenoids in intracellular
deposition of oxygen. Doklady Biophys. 196: 13.
104

Kaye, A. Me, Ie Icekson, H. BR. Lindner (1971) Stimulation by estrogens

of ornithine and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylases in the
immature rat uterus. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 252: 150-159,

_Katsh, 8., and A. Edelmann (1964) The influence of gonadectony,

sex, and strain upon the survival times of X-irradiated mice.
In: “Effects of Ionizing Radiation on the Reproductive
System:" (W. D. Carlson and F. X, Gassner, eds.), p. 427.
MacMillan, N.Y.

Kaunitz, H. and C, A, Slanetz (1947) Influence of alpha tocopherol
on implantation in old rats, Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 66: 334,

Kaunitz, H. and CG, A. Slanetz (1948) Implantation in normal and |
. vitamin E deficient rats. J. Nutr. 36: 331.

Kaunitz, He, C, AL Slanetz, and W, B. Atkinson (1948) Estrogen
response and pigmentation of the uterus in Vitamin E-
deficient rat. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 70: 302-304,

. Kennedy, G. Y, (1970) Harderoporphyrin: A new porphyrin from the

harderian glands of the rat. Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 36:
21-36.

Kimeldor£, D. J. and A. L. Soderwall (1947) Ghanges in the adrenal

cortical zones by ovarian hormones. Endocrinol. 41(1): 21-26,

‘Kirkpatrick, J, F. (1971) Differential sensitivity of preimplantation

mouse embryos in vitro to oestradiol and progesterone.
J. Reprod. Fert. Zi: 283-285.

Kobara, J. J. and D. Konvich (1972) The extraction of brain tsozymes
with solvents of varying polarity. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.
Kohn, R, R. (1971) “Principles of Mammalian Aging." Prentice Hall.

Kohn, R. R. (1971) Effects of antioxidants on life-span of C57BL
mice. J. Gerontol. 26(3): 378-380,

. Korenchevsky, V. (1961) "Physiological and Pathological Ageing."

(G. H. Bourne, ed.) Hafner, N. Y.

Koszalka, T. Re, and C. L. Andrew (1972) Effect of insulin on the
uptake of creatine-1-14¢ by skeletal muscle in normal and
X-irradiated rats. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 139(4): 1265-1271,
105

Kraay, R, J. and L, J. Black (1970) The effect of estrogen priming
on the uptake of radioactive estradiol. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.
Med, 133: 376-379.

Kreutzer, H. H. and W. H. S. Fennis (1964) Lactic dehydrogenase
isoenzymes in blood serum after storage at different tempera-
tures. Clin. Chin. Acta 9: 64-68, .

Krohn, P, L, (1966) Transplantation and aging. In: "Topics in
the Biology of Aging." (P. L. Krohn, eds), p. 125, Wiley
and Sons, N. Y.

Labhsetwar, A. P, (1970) Ageing changes in pituitary ovarian
relationships. J. Reprod. Fertil. Suppl. 12.

Labhsetwar, A. P. and N. Perser (1972) Uterine uptake of 6,7="H
oestradiol in the presence of intrauterine contraceptive
device in cyclic and pregnant rats. Acta Endocrinol. 69:
583~588.

Lansing, A. (1947) A transmissable, cumulative, and reversible
factor in aging. J. Gerontol. 2: 228-239.

Lazar, G. and G. L. Farkas (1970) Patterns of enzyme changes during |
leaf senescence. Acta Biol. Acad. Sci. Hung. 21(4): 389-396.

Leavit, W. W. and G. C,. Blaha (1970) Circulating progesterone levels
in the golden hamster during estrous cycle, pregnancy, and
lactation. Biol. Reprod. 3: 353-361.

Lecoq, R. and P. Isidor (1949) Studies on the histopathology of
vitamin E deficiency. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sei. 52: 139-141.

Lecoq, R., P. Chauchard and H. Mazoue (1949) Action of vitamin £
on the non=deficient organism. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 52(3): 142,

Lee, C. and H, I. Jacobson (1971) Uterine estrogen receptor in .
rats during pubescence and the estrous cycle. Endocrinol. 88: 596,

Lee, ¥Y. C. P., J. T. Kitig, and M, B. Visscher (1952) Influence
of protein and calorie intake. upon certain reproductive functions
and carcinogenesis in the mouse. Amer. J. Physiol. 168(2) 3
391-399,

Lehmann, F.,G, Bettendorf and Ch. Neale (1971) Plasma steroid
patterns in normal, pathological and induced ovarian cycles.
Acta Endocrin. (Kby.) Suppl. 155: 76.
106

Lehninger, A. Le. (1970) "Biochemistry." Worth, N. Y.

Lezzi, M. (1969) Differential effects of sodium and potassium
ions on the template activity of rat Liver chromatin.
Physiol. Chem. Phys. 1: 447.

Levvy, G. X., L. M. H. Kerr, and J. G. Campbell (1948) {8 ~Glucuron-
idase and cell proliferation. Biochem. J. 42: 462.

Lilly, J. C, "The Dolphin in History." By J. C. Lilly and A. Montagu,
University of California, L. A, (1963).

Ling, G. N. (1972) Paper presented at N. Y, Acad. of Sci. Intern,
Conf. on Interactions of Ions and Water with Macromolecules
and Biological Systems, Jan. 14, N. Y.

Ling, G. N. and M, H. Kromash (1967) The extracellular space of
voluntary muscle tissues. J. Gen. Physiol. 50(3): 677-694,

Loeb, Le, V. Suntzeff and E, L. Burns (1939) Changes in the nature
of the stroma in vagina, cervix and uterus of the mouse
produced by long continued injections of oestrogen and by
advancing age. Amer. J. Cancer 35: 159,

Loewenstein, J. M. (1972) Ammonia production in muscle and other
tissues: The purine nucleotide cycle. Physiol, Rev. 52(2):
382,

Longmuir, I. S., J. Pistel, I. L. Magnus (1958) Respiration of
epidermal cells. Bioch. Biophys. Acta 29; 203.

Longmuir, I, S. (1957) Respiration of rat-liver cells at low oxygen
concentrations. Biochem J. 65: 378.

Lucas, F. V., H. A. Neufeld, J, G,. Utterback, A. P, Martin, and
E. Stotz (1955) The effect of estrogen on the production of
a peroxidase in the rat uterus. J. Biol. Chem. 214: 775-780.

Lunaas, T. (1964) A simple method for detection of urinary estrogens.
Zootecnia e veterinari 14: 359-364,

Maharajh, D. M. and J. Walkley (1972) Lowering of the saturation -
solubility ‘of oxygen by the presence of another gas. Nature
236: 165.: . ~ ‘ :

Mahmoud, I, Y, and J, Klicka (1971) Developmental changes in lactic
dehydrogenase isozymes in turtles. Life Sci. Pt. IZ, 10(16):
955.
107

Malaviya, B., J. N. Karkun and A, B. Kar (1970) Effect of intra-
uterine contraceptive suture on the response of rat uterus
to prolonged estrogen treatment. Indian J. Exp. Biol. 8: 19,

McCay, P. B., J. L. Poyer, P. M. Pfeifer, H. E. May (1971)
A function of a-tocopherol: stabilization of the microsomal
membrane from radical attack during TPNH-dependent oxidat ions.
Lipids 6(5): 297-306.

McGuire, J. L., C. D. Bariso, B. S, Fuller (1972) Preliminary
isolation of an estrogen specific binding macromolecule from
the human uterus. J. Clin. Endocr. Metab. 34(1): 243-246.

‘McLaren, A. and T, M, Menke (1971) CO, output of mouse blastocysts
in vitro, in normal pregnancy and in delay. J. Reprod. Fert.
suppl. 14: 23-29.

Martin, L. (1963) Interactions between oestradiol and progesterone
in the uterus of the mouse. J. Endocrin. 26: 31-39.

Martin, L. (1960) The use of 2-3-5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride
in the biological assay of oestrogens. J. Endocrin. 20: 187~197.

Martin, L., C. A. Finn and J. Carter (1970) Effects of progesterone
and oestradiol-178 on the luminal epithelium of the mouse
uterus. J. Reprod. Fert. 21: 461-469.

Mathew, G. D. (1949) Pelvic endometriosis in relation to sterility.
Studies on Fertility # 1: 18,

Matusis, L. I. (1969) Effect of o€-tocopherol on creatine kinase
activity of skeletal muscles and blood in primary and secondary
vitamin K deficiency. Bull. Exp. Biol. Med. 69(3): 282.

Matusis, L. I. (1971) Effect of administration of e<-tocopherol to
albino rats on changes in content of ATP, ADP, and inorganic
Phosphorus in the skin and skeletal muscles due to avitaminosis
K. Bull. Exp. Biol. Med. 71(5): 542°543.

Maurer, R. R, and R. H. Foote (1971) Maternal ageing and embryonic
mortality in the rabbit. J. Reprod. Fert, 25: 329-341.

Meadow, N, D. and C. H. Barrows, Jr. (1971) Studies on aging in
a Bdelloid rotifer. II, The effects of various environmental
conditions and maternal age on longevity and fecundity.

J. Gerontol. 26(3): 302-309.
108

Mestwerdt, W., H. Brandau and H, H. Kley (1972) Struktur und
Funktion Steroidaktiver zellen im Postmenopauseovar. Acta
Endocr. (Kbh) Suppl. 159: 13.

Metchnikof, E. (1908) "Lhe Prolongation of Life." G. P. Putman's
‘Sons, N. Y.

Mitchell, J. A. and J. M. Yochim (1968) Intrauterine oxygen tension
during the estrous cycle in the rat: its relation to uterine
respiration and vascular activity. Endocrinol. 83: 701-705.

Mitchell, J. A. and J. M. Yochim (1968) Measurement of intra~

uterine oxygen tension in the rat and its regulation by ovarian
steroid hormones. Endocrinol, 83: 691- +700.

Mole, R. H. (1963) Does radiation age or produce non-specific life-
shortening? In: “Cellular Basis and Aetiology of Late Somatic
Effects of Ionizing Radiation"(R, J. Cc. Harris, ed.), p. 273.
Academic Press, N. Y.

-Morgulis, S. and W. Osheroff£ (1938) Mineral composition of the

muscles of rabbits on a diet producing muscle dystrophy.
J. Biol. Chem. May, pp. 767-773.

Mueller, G. C., A. M. Herranen and K, F. Jervell (1958) Studies on
the mechanism of action of estrogens. Rec. Prog. in Hormone
Res. XIV: 95-139.

~ Needham, A. E. (1964) "The Growth Process in Animals." van Nostrand

Co., Princeton. :

Needham, J. (1931) "Chemical Embryology." Cambridge University
‘Press, Cambridge. :

‘Needham, J. (1942) "Biochemistry and Morphogenesis." Cambridge

University Press, Cambridge.

Needham, J. and Lu Gwei-Djeh (1968) Steroid Hormones in the Middle
Ages. Endeavor 27: 130-132.

Nemetschek-Gansler, H, (1967) Ultrastructure of the myometrium.
In: “Cellular Biology of the Uterus" (R. M. Winn, ed.), p. 353.
Appleton-Century“Crofts, N. Y.-

_ Nevo, A. C. (1965) Dependence of sperm motility and respiration

on oxygen concentration. J. Reprod. Fert. 9: 103~107.
109

Nikolayev, A. I., F. B. Subkhankulova and I, S. Geller (1970)
Immune reactions during intoxication with the pesticides
methylmercaptophos, phosphamide, aldrin, and monuron.
Farmakologiya i Toksikologiya 33(6)¢ 737.

Olson, R. E. (1963) ‘Excess lactate" and anaerobiosis. Ann. Intern,
Med. 59: 960-963.

Orr, C. W., M. Yoshikawa~fukada and J. D. Ebert (1972) Potassium:
Effect on DNA synthesis and multiplication of baby-hamster
kidney cells. Proc. Nat. Acad, Sci. USA 69(1): 243-247.

Orsini, M. W. (1961) The external vaginal phenomena characterizing
the stages of the estrus cycle, pregnancy, pseudopregnancy,
lactation and the anestrous hamster, Mesocricetus auratus
Waterhouse. Proc. Anim. Care Panel 11: 193-206.

Orsini, M. W. and R. K. Meyer (1962) Effect of varying doses of
progesterone on implantation in the ovariectomized hamster.
Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 110: 713.

Otel, V., N, Arvanitopol and C. Sirbulescu (1968) Efectul progest~
eronului in Infertilitatea Functionale la Vaci. Lucr. Stiint
Inst. Cercet Zootech. 26: 113-118,

Palladin, A, V. (1964) In: "Problems. of the Biochemistry of the )
Nervous System."’ Pergamon Press, N. Y. ;

P'an, S. Y., He Kaunitz and C, A. Slanetz (1949) Restoration of
vaginal estrus by alpha-tocopherol acetate in: old rats.
Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 52: 80-82.

P*’ an, S. Y., H. B. van Dyke, H, Kaunitz and Cc, A, Slanetz (1949)
Effect of vitamin-E deficiency on amount of gonadotrophin in
the anterior pituitary of rats. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 72(3):
523-526,

Parkening, T. A. and A, L. Soderwall (1972) Delayed Embryonic
development and implantation in senescent golden hamsters.
In Press.

Patnaik, B. N. (1971) Age related studies on ascorbic acid metabolism.
Gerontologia 17(2): 112.

Peat, R. and A, L, Soderwall (1971) Cold-inactivated enzymes as
metabolic controls. Physiol. Chem. Phys. 3: 401-402.

Peat, R. and A. L, Soderwall (1972) Estrogen stimulated pathway
changes and cold-inactivated enzymes. Physiol. Chem. Phys.,
In Press. >
110

“Pepe, G. J. and J, M. Yochim (1971) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
activity in the endometrium and myometrium of the rat uterus
during the estrous cycle and progestation. Biol. Repr. 6: 161.

Pfeiffer, E., A. Verwoerdt and Hsioh-Shan Wang (1968)
Geriatric Focus 7(13): 1-6.

Pincus, G. and R. E. Kirsch (1936) The sterility in rabbits produced
by injections of oestrone and related compounds. Amer. J.
Physiol. 115: 219.

Poulson, E., J. M. Robson, and F. -M. Sullivan (1965) Embryopathic
effects of progesterone deficiency. J. Endocr. 31: xxviii.

Pous, D. L. and J. Comas (1959) La Insuficiencia Progestacional
del Endometrio. Proc. 3rd World Congr. Fert. Ster. (Amsterdam):
593-595.

Raab, W., P. van Lith, E. Lepeschkin, H. C. Herrlich (1962)
Catecholamine-induced myocardial hypoxia in the presence of
impaired coronary dilatability independent of external cardiac
work. Amer. J. Cardiol. 9: 455-470,

Racker, E. (1972) Bioenergetics and the problem of tumor growth.
Amer. Sci. 60: 56-63,°

Reid, E. (1965) "Biochemical Approaches to Cancer." Pergamon Press,
N. Y.

Reithel, F. J. (1967) "Concepts in Biochemistry." McGraw-Hill, N. Y.

Roberts, S. and C, M. Szego (1953) The influence of steroids on uterine
respiration and glycolysis. J. Biol. Chem. 201: 21.

Rokitanskiy, V. I. and Yu. V. Yakimov (1971) Proton relaxation in
“joint tissue after trauma: Study based on nuclear magnetic
resonance data. Ortopediya, Traumatologiya i Protezirovaniye
9: 35.

Rowlatt, C. (1970) Some effects of age and castration in the
epithelial basal lamina of secondary sex organs in the mouse.
Gerontologia (Basel) 16(3): 182. ,
111

- Rusin, V. Ya. (1971) Results of a post-mortem study of endocrine
glands and other organs of animals exposed to muscle training,
cold adaptation or treated with dibazol. Biologicheskie Nauki,
4: 33.

Sacher, G. A. (1959) Relation of lifespan to brain and body weight.
In; Ciba Foundation Coll. on Ageing, 5: 115.

Sacher, G..A. (1968) Molecular versus systemic theories on the
genesis of ageing. Exp. Gerontol. 3: 265.

. Saldarini, J. and-J. M, Yochim (1967) Metabolism of the uterus of
the rat during early pseudopregnancy and its regulation by
estrogen and progesterone. Endocrinol. 80: 453-466.

Sanwal, P. C., J. K. Pande, P. R. Dasgupta, A. B. Kar and B. S, Setty
(1970) Long-term effect of a continuous low dose of megestrol
acetate on the genital organs and fertility of female rats.
Steroids 15(5): 711.

Schaub, M. C, (1964/5) Changes of collagen in the aging and in the
pregnant uterus of white rats. Gerontol. 10: 137.

Schmidt, H., I. Noack, H. Walther, and K, D, Voigt (1967) Einfluss
von cyclus und exogener Hormonzufuhr auf Stoffwechselvorgange
des Rattenuterus. Acta Endocrinol. 56: 231-243.

Schultze, A. B. (1968) Selective breeding for uterine metabolic
status and its relation to body size in rats. Growth 32:
163-164, , :

Schultze, A, B. (1967) Uterine metabolism changes during gestation
in rats of different age groups. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med.
125: 379-382.

Schultze, A, B. (1965) Offspring of multiparous rats. Je Reprod.
Fert. 10: 145-147.

Schultze, A. B, (1969) Results of breeding for low and high uterine
metabolic status in rats. J. Hered. 60: 349-350.

Schultze, A. B. (1964) Triphenyltetrazolium reduction by uterine
tissue of rats. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 116: 653.

Schultze, A. B. (1964) Changes in uterine metabolism associated
with reproductive status in female rats. Proc. 5th Intern,
Congr. Anim. Reprod. and Artif. Insemin. 2: 301.
112

Schwarz, K. (1949) Dietetic hepatic injuries and the mode of action
of tocopherol. Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 52: 225.

Senger, P. L., E, D. Lose, and L, C. Ulberg (1967) Reduced blood
supply to the uterus as a.cause for early embryonic death
in the mouse. J. Exp. Zool. 165: 337-344,

Shain, S. A. and A. Barnea (1971) Some characteristics of the
estradiol binding protein of the mature, intact rat uterus.
Endocrinol. 89: 1270-1279.

Sharp, J. C., C. J. Paperiello (1971) The effects of microwave
exposure on thymidine-~H uptake in albino rats. Radiation

Shereshevsky, Je Ie (1928) A study of vapor pressures in small
capillaries. I, Water vapor. (A) Soft glass capillaries,
J. Amer. Chem. Soc..50: 2966. .

Shereshevsky, J. L. and C. P. Carter (1950) Liquid-vapor equilibrium
in microscopic capillaries. J, Amer. Chem. Soc. 72: 3682,

_ Singhal, R. L.,, . J, R. E. Valadares, and G, M. Ling (1969)

Estrogenic regulation of uterine carbohydrate metabolism
during senescence. Am. J. Physiol. 217: 793-797.

Shock, N. W., Me Je Yiengst, J. A. Falzone (1963) Age differences
in the water content of the. body as related to basal oxygen
consumption in males. J. Geront. 18: 1. |

Shukla, S, P, and M, S. Kanungo (1970) Oxidation of pyruvate and
lactate by the liver and brain homogenates of rats of various
ages. Exp. Geront...5:. 171-175, 7

Shute, E. Ve (1940) A ‘reply to recent criticisms of the theory of a
relationship between vitamin E and the oestrogens. J. Endocr. 2:
173-178. ae "

Smith, M. G. (1926) Interruption of pregnancy in rat by injection
'. o£ ovarian follicular extract. Bull. John Hopkins Hosp.
39: 203-214. .

Snedcor, G. W. (1956) "Statistical Methods." 5th Edn. ‘Iowa State
College Press, Ames. oo
113

Soderwall, A. Le, H. A. Kent, C. L, Turbyfill and A. L. Britenbaker
(1960) Variation in gestation length and litter size of the
golden hamster, Mesocricetus auratus. J. Geront. 45: 246-248.

Soderwall, A, L. and B, C. Smith (1962) Beneficial effect of wheat
germ oil on pregnancies in female golden hamsters (Mesocricetus
auratus: Waterhouse}. Fert. Steril. 13: 287.

Song, C. S,:;and A. Kappas (1968) The influence of estrogens,
progestins, and pregnancy on the liver. Vitamins and Hormones 26;

Spaziani, E. and R, P, Suddick (1967) Hexose transport and blood
flow rate in the uterus: effects of estradiol, puromycin,
and actinomycin D. Endocrinol. 81: 205-212,

Stambaugh, R. and J. Buckley (1971) Association of the lactic
dehydrogenase X4 isozyme with male-producing rabbit spermatozoa,
J. Reprod. Fert. 25: 275-278,

Steinach, E. . (1940) "Sex and Life.” Viking Press, N. Y.

Stockton, B. (1972) Reproductive senescence in the golden hamster,

Mesocricetus auratus Waterhouse: Temporal aspects of ovulation
and induction of uterine decidual cells. Ph. D. Dissertation,

University of Oregon, Eugene.

Strehler, B. L. (1967) In:. Soc. Exp. Biol. Symp. XXI, Aspects of
the Biology of Aging, (H. W. Woolhouse, edo}, pe 149.
Academic Press, N. Y.

Strickland, K. P., R. H. S. Thompson and G; R. Webster (1956)
The effects of anticholinesterases on oxidative phosphorylation
in brain, and their relation to potassium loss and nerve
degeneration. Biochem. J. 62: 512.. ~ 7,

Strong, L. C. (1942) Sex differences in pigment content of Harderian
glands of mice. Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 50: 123.

Strong, L. C. (1968) "Biological Aspects of Cancer and Aging."
Pergamon Press, N. Y.

Strong, L. C., F. N. Johnson and A, A, Riom (1965) The effects of
fifty-four generations of inbreeding on age of first litters,
J. Gerontol, 20(3): 405-409.
114

Surani, M, A. H. and P. J. Heald (1971) The metabolism of glucose
by rat uterus tissue in early pregnancy. Acta Endocrinol. 66;
1624,

Takeuchi, T., M. Hayashi and W. H. Fishman (1962) Mucinogenesis
and enzymorphology of rat vagina: phosphorylase,
f-glucuronidase, DPNH-diaphorase and phosphatases. Acta
Endocrinol. 39: 395-406,

Talbert, G. B. and P. L. Krohn (1966) Effect of maternal age on
viability of ova and uterine support of pregnancy in mice.
J. Reprod. Fert. 11: 399-406.

Talbert, G. B. (1971) Effects of maternal age on pcst-implant ation
reproductive failure in mice. J. Reprod. Fert. 24: 449.

Talalay, P., W. H. Fishman, and C, Huggins (1946) Chromogenic
substrates. II. Phenolphthalein glucuronic acid as substrate
for the assay of glucuronidase activity. J. Biol. Chen. 166: -
757.

Talalay, P. and H. G, Williams-Ashman (1958) Activation of H-
transfer between pyridine nucleotides by steroid hormones,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 4: 15,

Tart, C. C. (1972) States of consciousness and state-specific
sciences. Science 176. ‘ .

Temple, S., V. P, Hollander, N. Hollander, and M. 1. Stephens (1960)
Estradiol activation of uterine reduced diphosphopyridine
nucleotide oxidase. J. Biol. Chem. 235(5): 1504-1509.

Thorneycroft, I. H. and A. L. Soderwall (1969) The nature of the
litter size loss in senescent hamsters. Anat. Rec. 165:
343-348,

Thorneycroft, I. H. and A. L. Soderwall (1969) Ovarian morphological
and functional changes in reproductively senescent hamsters.
Anat. Rec. 165: 349-354,

Thung, P. J. and C, F, Hollander (1967) Regenerative growth and
accelerated ageing. In: Soc. Exp. Biol. Symp. XXI, Aspects
of the Biology of Aging, (H, W. Woolhouse, ed.). Academic
Press, N. Y.
115

Tobin, R. BL, M. A. Mehlman (1971) pH Effects on 09 consumption
and on lactate and pyruvate production by liver slices.
Amer. J. Physiol, 221(4): 1151-1155,

Tomkins, G. M., K, L. Yielding, and J, Curran (1961) Steroid hormone
activation of L~alanine oxidation catalyzed by a subunit of
crystalline glutamic dehydrogenase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.

47: 270-278.

Tomlinson, R. W. S. (1971) The action of progesterone on the sodiun
transport of isolated frog skin. Acta Physiol. Scand. 83:
463-472.

Trams, G., B. Engel, F. Lehmann, and H. Maass (1971) Specific binding
of oestradiol in human uterine tissue. Acta Endocrin. (Kbh.)
Suppl. 155: 133.

Troshin, A. S. (1966) "Problems of Cell Permeability." Pergamon
Press, N. Y.

Ungar, Ge, E. Aschheim, S. Psychoyos, and DPD. V. Romano (1957)
Reversible changes of protein configuration in stimulated nerve
structures. J. Gen. Physiol. 40: 635.

Ungar, G. and S$. Kadis (1959) Effect of insulin on sulphydryl
groups in muscle. Nature 183(4653): 49=50. ;

Valentini, E. J. and E, W. Hahn (1971) The indirect effect of
radiation on embryonic mortality. Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 20(3):
259-267.

Verzar, F., and M. Ermini (1970) Decrease of creat ine-phosphate
restitution of muscle in old age and the influence of glucose.
Gerontol. 16: 223-230.

Villee, C. A., D. D. Hagerman, and P, B. Joel (1965) An enzymatic
basis for the physiologic function of estrogens. Rec. Prog.:
Hormone Res. 16: 46-69. , ‘

Vinson, G. P. and I, C. Jones (1964) The in vitro production of
cestrogens from progesterone by mouse adrenal glands.
J. Endocrinol. 29: 185-191.

Visscher, M. B., J. T. King, and ¥. C, P. Lee (1952) Further studies
on influence of age and diet upon reproductive senescence in
strain A female mice. Amer. J. Physiol. 170: 72.
116

Waddell, W. J. and R, G, Bates (1969) Intracellular pH. Physiol.
Rev. 49: 285. . ,

Wakabayashi, M. (1970) (8 ~glucuronidases in metabolic hydrolysis,
In: “Metabolic Conjugation and Metabolic Hydrolysis," Vol. |
II (W. H. Fishman, ed.), pp. 520-602. Academic Press, Ne. Y,

Warburg, 0. (1969) "The Prime Cause and Prevention of Cancer.''
Konrad Triltsch, Wurzburg, Germany.

Warburg, O., A. W, Geissler, and S. Lorenz (1967) Oxygen, the
creator of differentiation. In: "Aspects of Yeast Metabolism" -
(A. K. Mills, ed.), p. 327. Blackwell, Oxford.

Webb, S. J. (1965) "Bound Water in Biological Integrity."
Thomas, Springfield.

Wiggins, P. M. (1971) Water structure as a determinant of ion
distribution in living tissue. J. Theor, Biol. 32: 131-146.

Wigglesworth, J. S. (1964) Experimental growth retardation in the
' Yat. J. Pathol. Bacteriol. 88(1):1.

Wilson, E. W. (1969) The effect of oestradiol-178 on enzymes
concerned with metabolism of carbohydrate in human endometrium
in vitro. J. Endocr. 44: 63-68.

Wintenberger-Torres, S. and M-C. Danel (1971) Etude du developpement

in vitro des blastocystes de lapin. Ann. Biol. Anim. Bioch.
Biophys. 221(3): 379-3387,

With, T. C. (1963) "Bile Pigments." Academic Press, N. ¥.

Woessner, J. F. (1962) Ageing of human uterus connective tissue,
J. Gerontol. 17: 453. ‘

Yanagishima, N., C. Shimoda, T. Takahashi, and N. Takao (1970)
Responsiveness of yeast cells to auxin, animal sex hormones
and yeast sexual hormones in relation to sex controlling
genes. Devel. Growth, Different. 11(4): 277-285.

Yochim, J. M. and J. A. Mitchell (1968) Intrauterine oxygen tension
in the rat during progestation: its possible relation to
carbohydrate metabolism and the regulation of nidation.
Endocrinol, 83: 706-713.
117

 Yochim, J. M. (1971) Intrauterine oxygen tension and the metabolism
of the endometrium during the preimplantation period. In:
"Biology of the Blastocyst" (R, J, Blandau, ed.), p. 363.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.

‘Yochim, J. M. and S, W, Clark (1971) Lactic dehydrogenase activity
in the uterus of the rat during the estrous cycle and its
relation to intrauterine oxygen tension. Biol. Reprod.
146-151.

‘Yokota, K. and Yamazaki (1965) Reaction of peroxidase with reduced
nicotinamide~adenine dinucleotide and reduced nicotinamide-
adenine dinucleotide phosphate. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 105:
301-312. ,

Yudkin, F. (1970) A rival of the legendary ginseng. Ural 11: 77-79.
Zinkat, W. (1931) Hist-topochemische untersuchungen uber die
_ Schwankungen des Kalkge haltes den Arterten des Uterus.
Virchow's Arch. Path. Anat. u. Physiol. 281(3): 911-931.

Zondag, H. A. (1963) Lactate dehydrogenase isozymes: lability at
low temperature. Nature 143: 965-967,
