 You Thank you for watching! Thanks for watching. Copyright © 2019 Mooji Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved. No part of this recording may be reproduced Thank you very much. Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! so You Thanks for watching! Music living life. Then the earth crumbled. Thank you for watching. MUSIC Thanks for watching!. Thank you for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! bicycle sound Thanks for watching! A B A A B A B A B A B A A B A B A A Biling 5 1 S 0 2 1 10 11 12 13 14 15 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 You You You Okay, and we're live. Hello, everybody. Welcome. We have Georgie and Mr. Raymond Pete on the line and we are talking about Aristotle. We were talking about forms matter, deep politics. And so I'm not going to interrupt what we were talking about, but Georgie, go ahead. Yeah, I was curious what Dr. P thinks made that specific parts of the world amenable to such contradictory ideas, basically. Is it something in the way people saw the world in those different parts? The way people saw reality in those different parts of the world? Why would Eastern Europe or Eastern world be so amenable to change and so accepting of change, while the Western world will be like, nope. Um, you know, we're firmly controlled. That's the only theory that we accept this true. Um, change must be happening everywhere. Why would it take root in certain parts of the world and not others? In the fifties, I was considering the Forfian hypothesis that language, the structure of language that has evolved in remote history, that the structure of language contributes to that, but I fairly quickly realized that cultural things such as the difference between Aristotle and Plato in the available literature, when people were just barely starting to get literate, the church was just starting to get literate, the church was of course for literacy and it happened that the Eastern Christian Church got the good Aristotle literature and the West was influenced by Platonism. So I still tend to think that there are slight differences from the structure of language. There's a linguist at Stanford who is the contemporary Orphean apologist. I think that can be seen in the difference between English and German, for example, and between, say, Chinese and Hindi. It has reduced the superstructure of grammatical form and depends greatly on context. I think that there's a noticeable difference between English and the older European languages with more context dependence in English grammar. Okay. Are you familiar with the ideas of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein? Oh yeah. The thing I liked about him was that he numbered his paragraphs instead of trying to make a grand argument that progressed logically. He simply made statements. and numbered them because he believed that every statement implies a metaphysical surrounding. I had been studying Bertrand Russell and the linguistic philosophers who I saw as being a way not Russell, but the people who followed him and called themselves the language philosophers like John Wisdom I saw them as trying to sneak in the old Platonism entities logical atomism for example, which was Russell's word for it um, Wittgenstein blew that up and showed somewhat a resonance with the old Leibniz, a universe being implied in every statement or every event implying the surrounding context. Right, I mean, the thing that made an impression on me the most is he said there's no such thing as private language, there are no private... thoughts that can all be expressed, and there are no private fields, as you said in many of your interviews. Yeah, but... when you try to work out the implications of there is no private language, you're always guessing statistically. That you're understanding that the other person, if you can't remember for sure that your own language is consistent and testable, when you look at the other person, you're just making a statistically sounder guess. There's no essential difference between shared language and the private language once you realize that they all depend on memory and interpretation. Okay. Well, that's pretty interesting. Well, that leads me to the next question about, you had a discussion with Danny about Lenin memory and matter. And basically you said, well, Lenin kind of said that, you know, knowledge is memory and it's coming from matter, but it's not matter, right? Matter is everything we don't know. So what is knowledge then? I mean, if it's not matter, what is knowledge? It's the physiological present of matter and the info is the matter itself that hasn't. have been incorporated into our perspective. Okay, so would you say that knowledge is simply the structure of matter that we incorporate into ourselves? Yeah, it's a living matter and it's always open to living a new phase and that openness to ________________. New life is matter, and ________________ is all we can say about matter. It's not denying the materiality, it's saying that this is the living matter that is our consciousness and that's like there's an internal fountain in effect. It's always going on, going ahead, becoming something else and that's the nature of matter that it's creating this constant flow of knowledge. Okay. So in another interview, I think again with Danny, you basically said that nothing is stored, right? Basically how we feel about our memories and knowledge in general depends largely on thyroid function and metabolism in general. So if knowledge isn't stored, where is it? When we access a memory, so to speak, what does that process physiologically look like? It's some trace in our facial muscles, viscera, posture. We've worked through a series of reinventions, finding... these pictures, which are arrangements of excitations, but we don't go straight to a picture. We work by inference and traces to reconstruct it. So every time we bring up the past, we're... is creating a new past. Okay, so when we're remembering, we're partially recreating the memory. Yeah, it's always new, newly experienced. The idea that something is stored becomes part of that Platonist idea that it ends up saying that atoms are timeless entities. Yeah. And can be accurately described only by changeless units of logic. You can't let change into the system if you're in that logical atomism range all the way to Platonism. Reductionism is denying that atoms... An individual atom has a history, for example. The memory as reconstruction is that we're like a whirlwind of consciousness, but the shape of our individual whirlwind is always ongoing, but it is... moving ahead with some degree of deduction from our previous states and looking back it's like reverse deduction to reconstruct that we must have experienced that being where we are. And probably one of those same conversations we were talking about, I was asking you some philosophical questions. And you said something like you have to start and end with being an animal. And like I think you said something like an animal reality. Can we can you talk about that a little bit? Because I found that to be pretty interesting. Yeah, we're an animal experiencing a unique nature around it or people is aware of its needs and hopes. And also, any fears that it has, it interprets particular objects or processes as either hopeful or fearsome, otherwise it's in the process of going through the present situation. � with the intention of finding the realization of what it was. People�s culture has piled up beliefs and stories that complicate that so that we don't see ourselves as surrounded by ouselves. Future future and and dangers future possibilities and threats and i think anytime you're going to get back on the track of realizing yourself the. The the larger intention that the thing that religious people feel as. Some kind of overarching meaning for the animal the human hopefully biologically amplified animal doing things that some animals can't do by by our energy amplification we can have the animal intentionality. Encompassing future possibilities on a transpersonal scale, seeing the need for the ecosystem and for the society, for other individuals, even for different kinds of organisms, taking responsibility in a straight line with yourself, feeling that you are responsible. For all of the stuff around you, that you see it all as hopeful, moving towards the future, and don't have any of these cultural kinks that say, I own this, or I have to destroy this to do this, and so on. You try to picture overarching a series of meanings so that everything can get into a better future. Are you saying, sorry, are you saying that amplified rate of metabolism coexists with a sense of solidarity with other humans or the Kropotkin mutual aid, assuming your basic needs are met? Yeah, I see Kropotkin blending in with Vernadsky. Vernadsky is saying that the flow of energy from the Sun into the Earth is trying, the substance responding to that flow of energy is creating a living structural system that is assimilating and accumulating the energy from the Sun into the Earth. Interactions of the different levels of the ecosystem permitting the optimizing the metabolism of the big animal developing a big brain and doing the things that are appropriate, like animals tearing through the jungle are improving the fertility of the system. Not damaging it, like Alan Savery, his rough idea is compatible with Pernadsky, that the big animals are a big part of the ecosystems that they develop in and they are pulling, helping to pull the whole ecosystem forward. Because they are such massive energy dissipating structures. Question on the being an animal in this world. Are you referring to basically the Pavlov's ideas of the first and second signal system? The first signal system being basically the animal raw perception of reality? Yeah, I don't see it as being strictly second. The first signal system... P.K. Anokhin, who was a colleague younger than Pavlov, developed the picture of the consciousness in this unified sense. He called it the acceptor of action, which you can't really separate the orienting reflex or the dominant concept. From the acceptor of action, it's the present state of the organism in a pictorial space-filling model of the world. The second signal system in Pavlov's term is the third signal system gets its structure by acting as names for structures in this acceptor of action, like you have a little three-dimensional holographic movie going on with your intentions cycling through this movie model of the world. The words, the second signal system attaches to these, each part of the model of the world has a naming relationship, marks or angles referred to it as a name of a ghost. The end is near. The language system gets its structure exclusively from this pictorial model of the world, the acceptor of action. I mean, the way I understood your book at least was that intuition was part of the first capacity for rigid, analytical, abstract thought that felt like it didn't even need images, that was part of the second signal system. And then the authoritarian mind and people with authoritarian tendencies tend to really emphasize the second signal system. In other words, purely abstract thought without any connection to reality, to the first signal system. Um, yeah, I did when I was in... studying psychology at the university, I did a survey asking people how they dreamed as well as their waking thought processes. And I found that there were people who never, who didn't know what it was to dream in pictures. They said a dream was like listening to someone tell a story. And those people... were, on a scale of creativity, they would be absolute zero. They followed verbal rules. Somehow they could talk to people and seem to communicate in English, but they had no ability to think. With any innovation, it was only what could be said in a familiar way, and when your acceptor of action is de-energized, it tends to disappear, leaving just these solidified units of language. You can't... learn a language without having some fluidity in this model of the world, but by the age of six or seven, people are often losing enough biological energy that they start seeing reality in terms of only the cliches that they can say. This might be a semi-off topic, but like, where does personal responsibility, but also like the kind of destruction of the individual from the culture, like where does personal responsibility begin where a person is born into a culture that basically sets them up for total failure? You know, like we're going to talk about vaccines, but when I went home to Southern California, probably a few years ago, my mom gave me a sheet of all the vaccines I got when I was a little kid, and it was, like, a ridiculous, I don't remember, it was like 20. And so, and I know that's even worse now. So, it just seems like, as, and I know you talked about with, what was his name, Guillermo, Guillermo, but how the universe is expanding and growing, but our society is kind of declining at the same time. Um, yeah, you can see, biological. Uh, decline, I looked at the, um, birth weight of different nations and the head size. Uh, and, uh, for much of the, uh, 19th and 20th century, uh, birth weights and brain sizes were increasing steadily, uh, 1980, uh, several countries and an actual shrinkage of brain size, uh, or, uh, uh, a growth in height with no growth in, in brain from generation from decade to decade. Uh, so, uh, the cultural imposition really is literally shrinking people's brains now. I just read a few days ago, like generation Z that has a pretty high suicide rate, uh, and it doesn't look good. About 75% of them apparently have mental illness. They meet the diagnostic criteria, as fake as it is, for at least one mental illness according to the American Psychiatric Association. This is like the youngest generation that's just entering, not the workforce, but they're in high school now. I think that kind of information has to get through to the people who... own and run the world, that their machine is breaking down. If they really take their ownership seriously, that they want to keep their wealth, they'd better start repairing the mechanism, because......the components are deteriorating too fast. I think that......it is most likely that it will be......some disaster that......that forces it. I don't think it's possible to get back to any kind of a good primitive state, but I think some kind of a big shock is going to have to happen before people, like people fearing Elizabeth Warren's policy suggestions and simply ruling out people like that. Both parties are committed to destroying the world, and so unless people start dismantling, preferably the Democratic Party, since there are still people who remember that there used to be policies connected with the party, dismantling that seems like a bad idea. A possible route to the future. I wanted to backtrack a little bit on the verbal system. Um, I don't know. Dr. Peter, are you familiar with there's this, um, signs slash symptoms slash pathology and psychiatry, they call it logo rare. And basically it's almost like it literally means verbal diarrhea. And I, I didn't, I mean, I stumbled upon it a few weeks ago and I, when I looked into it, older studies show that it's. Basically, overwhelmingly connected to a number of psychiatric conditions that are known to be driven by excess estrogen and serotonin. And so my question is, do you do you think that this excessive verbalism that essentially estrogen and serotonin are partly mediating that? And also, do you think that if somebody is in a culture that's excessively over verbalized, eventually can lead to such pathologies itself? Thank you for your question. Women, in general, produce many more words per minute than men on average. Looking at the menstrual phase, when estrogen is highest, they can't stop talking. I think that involves a short circuit of the pictorial space-filling thought. And directing the energy through these repetitive verbal patterns is very easy to make, but not conforming to any practical use. The thing about the acceptor of action ________________ pictorial model of the world is that it's always changing. There's nothing repeated. Anything you try to do twice, it's always different the second time. But the word consciousness, the estrogen driven, lubricated word machine doesn't get any newness. It's always repeating, tending to be cliched and rehashing things that have already been built into the system. In one of your older interviews you mentioned that you try to spend at least one day a week not really uttering any words or reading and just painting and doing nonverbal activities. So do you think that... I mean, you must be thinking that it's beneficial to do it if you're doing it on purpose. So I'm guessing my question is do you think that excessive verbalization, when it's voluntary, it can basically be detrimental? Not if you keep your energy up. I had to teach 12 hours a week, different classes. After just two or three weeks, my verbal fluency went up tremendously just because I was exercising that. But I never repeated any idea twice through the whole series of lectures. If you keep your energy up, you can do it. Verbalize fairly fluently, but always bending the message a little so there's nothing repeated. People always remark how like on KMUD when Andrew asks you to introduce yourself, you'll change it basically every single time. Are you saying that's kind of the result of keeping the energy up, or are you consciously trying to recreate your... your history, and all the things you've done? Yeah, I never have the same history twice. A friend had a TV program, and she wanted to do some hour interviews, and she was an experienced TV person. So she would run through a trial program and then say she wanted to do it again, but I would give different answers every time. She finally gave up and realized that it was always going to be different answers. But that's just the way I see the question. The question never looks the same the second time. What karen told me i like probably five or more years ago she's like danny something that you have to understand about ray is when you try to put him in a box he's gonna immediately want to get out and so that was that made a big one even get exactly what i'm saying is that like a kind of a unique aspect of your personality or do you think that's like a metabolic thing of trying to always stay in a creative aspect creative mind i don't know mindset or something about your your history. you I first noticed it when I was, I think, three years old and helping my father with a repetitive task. I realized that every time I repeated the task, I was a new person. And ever since then, I've never been able to have the illusion of doing something twice. And that's the end. If that's the case, then don't you think that schools are really harmful because they emphasize this routine at every step of the educational process, both the elementary schools, the high schools, and the universities. They really don't like you being different every single time. Yeah. If a person let them be tortured constantly. But you just have to be quiet and let them do their thing. Yeah. Yeah, my only concern is that you once said that faint stupidity becomes real stupidity. So I guess a person just has to be sitting there and hoping that they're not going to be stuck in the educational system long enough to become an idiot like all the other people being turned into slaves, mental slaves. Yeah, people who did IQ tests on New York City, every year they gave the same students more IQ tests and found that every year their IQ went down. Wow. Have you also seen the studies showing that the earlier a child starts school, basically the dumber, they will exit the whole the whole educational system? I hadn't seen that, but that would be the same principle. Yeah, I have two sisters and I don't think either of them watch this, but the one that didn't go to college, I can talk normally with. And then the one that did go to college, I like we don't. We don't have very much in common, so I've definitely seen that played out. Ray, do you think the vaccinations, besides the food and the polyunsaturated fats, you see that as a major kind of problem for society? Yeah, until fairly recently, I hadn't realized that kids are now getting 50 shots by the time they grow up, but the... Robert Kennedy Jr. mentioned that until 1980, only 2.5%, I think, of kids, he said, had allergies. Starting in the 1980s, I think he said it was over half of the kids now have serious allergies. And if you want to create an allergy in an animal... You give an injection, intramuscular is ideal, to include some little thing like an egg protein or milk protein or any of the various proteins that are in the culture media that they make vaccines in. So they are replicating animal allergy creation. Every time they give a shot, there's no way to deny it sensibly. I think on one of our conversations you said the background for vaccines was related to the Rockefeller Foundation and trying to keep workers active, but now do you think they take on a different meaning nowadays? billions of dollars, 50 billion a year, I think it is profits, mostly profits from the sale of just vaccines. And I don't know if Dr. Pete has seen the news, but I was shocked to see CNN last week putting a headline news that basically said, CDC is warning. It's not a question of if, but when. Coronavirus will create a massive epidemic in the United States. And I thought to myself, why, why would a health agency issue such a statement? And then why would a major news media publish it? Isn't that like the exact opposite? What a government should be doing? Like scaring, scaring all of its citizens and not really providing any answers. They're just saying it will be bad and be very afraid. Yeah, the CDC, I don't know what the average is, but... over the last, I think, at least 15 years, they say that the annual deaths produced by influenza, and I think they're all coronavirus influenza, that's just the standard category that produces influenza, they have been saying, I think it ranges from 9 million deaths per year in the United States to... a high of 57 million deaths from influenza per year. That's worldwide? Now they expect us to get excited when a dozen people die. Well, so I was trying to think of all the like swine flu, SARS, bird flu, Zika virus, like is the difference between all these things, like it seems like I was talking about with Georgie before I got on the phone with you, right? And I said that my Twitter application on my phone, so when I do turn on my phone, the application of Twitter, there is a new huge bar on the screen just updating me on coronavirus, but I've never, the application has changed to give me updates that I've never asked for on coronavirus, and it just seems like the marketing campaign is palpable, very, very strong. Yeah, and the World Health Organization is sharing in the corruption conflicts of interest, so you can't trust any of the big organizations because they manage to profit in some way from the huge amount of wealth that's being directed through the vaccines. I have a question about viral resilience in general. I was reading some older studies and they were all showing that basically the more hydrophilic the cell is, the greater its susceptibility to a viral infection. And then I thought, okay, so doesn't that suggest that the presence of polyunsaturated fats in the blood would increase susceptibility to the virus? And unsurprisingly or surprisingly, there are quite a few studies published before the 1950s. That made that exact same claim that if you have high levels of unsaturated fats in the blood, they will increase the affinity of the cell for water and also for these viral particles. But if the level of free fatty acids in the blood are low, then cells were extremely resilient to even lethal viruses like the rabies. Yeah, that whole subject of polyunsaturated fats, it's worse than any organized crime campaign. Estrogen and polyunsaturated fats are gigantic criminal businesses, and the omega minus three fats are especially powerful in immune suppression, but they market that as being anti-inflammatory. Was it? Right, so my question was like basically wouldn't something as simple as taking some aspirin and niacinamide, essentially greatly reduce the risk of catching any viral infection? Yeah, I think so. And aspirin happens to be an antiviral agent in itself, antibacterial and antiviral. There was a study I think around Washington D.C. that tested it on AIDS patients. Just big doses of aspirin and it was working but no one was interested. I live in D.C. and I met one of the people who were involved in the study and he refuses to talk about it. Basically the statement was the question is too political and I said well I've seen the study. You guys claim that it was terminated because there was a... that will arise in the levels of the liver enzymes in the aspirin group. He said, yeah, that was the official story, but that's not why it was stopped. And when I asked why it was stopped, he said, it's way above my pay grade. I mean, meaning mine, not his. Ray, one of the papers you had cited in one of your articles, the Persaud paper, and they say, it is perhaps surprising that essential lipids that are supposed to be so good for health are so potent at killing cells. So yeah, just supporting what you're talking about. And then you on your HIV article were referencing papers that those people had high levels of PUFA in their blood. And it's something I had never even heard of anywhere else. Immunodeficiency is a big thing apart from any virus. Sepsis. Has been growing along with other degenerative diseases but young people never used to get sepsis practically but now sepsis is affecting younger and younger people in bigger numbers and I think it's largely the stress cumulative effects on PUFA. Well, something that's popular among my group of friends is the idea of herd immunity. Do you want to speak about that? I think that's why people are scared and kind of my freedom loving friends, the best of them would still want other people to forcefully get vaccinations because they fear for their own safety. And so do you want to maybe speak if you know where that idea stemmed from and then how it fits into your... or how it does not fit into your biological and physiological picture? It sounds very much like a Nazi program. It doesn't have any convincing weight for me. It just makes me fear the people that say we're a herd that has to be. Treated one way or another. Have you seen any of that movie faxed? They talk about the military treat vaccinating people and creating Gulf War syndrome with the anthrax vaccine. Well, I hadn't read that specifically, but the Diana Dutton wrote a book called Worse Than Disease where she like kind of details the swine flu. And it was kind of similar to what you said earlier about coronavirus, like the the the problem didn't kill very many people, but the vaccine caused tons of problems. Yeah, one guy was routed out of bed to go on a forced march and collapsed while marching and died shortly after. And he was diagnosed as having swine flu. He was the only death acknowledged by the head of the CDC from swine flu. But I forget the exact number, but there were thousands of paralytic reactions. And I think it was around 300 deaths from the vaccine, so hundreds of times worse than the disease. You say in your newsletter, if a vaccine hasn't produced swelling, fever, anaphylaxis, shock, paralysis, or death, within two months, it is safe. Or the public health view, it seems to be that if a vaccine hasn't produced swelling, which is just crazy. Yeah, yeah, I wanted to mention something about HIV. Dr. Pete may have seen that study. I think it came out around 2014. Of course, didn't hit. Mainstream media, but it showed that at least the authors claim that you cannot develop AIDS if you're HIV positive, so you cannot develop AIDS unless there's high levels of endotoxin in your blood. And then there was a subsequent study in 2018 which showed that the single most reliable predictor of death of all cause mortality in HIV positive people was the level of this protein called soluble. CD14, it's abbreviated SCD14, and that is the most reliable biomarker of endotoxin levels in the blood. And for some reason I never see virologists talk about the role of endotoxin in viral disease and multi-organ failure and in septic shock, while in reality it seems like all of these things are directly caused by endotoxin. Yeah, I'm inclined to think that even cancer... is largely an endotoxin problem. Chronic, year after year, bad food irritating the intestine causing increased histamine and serotonin and estrogen, but a constant stream of endotoxin flowing through the system, shaking up chromosomes, creating inflammation, fatiguing the repair systems. Finally, when the repair systems are down to a certain extent, the cancers that are constantly popping up stop being removed. If you don't die of acute sepsis, then heart disease and cancer, I think, are the result of chronic exposure to the endotoxin. So would you say the specific organ or tissue where the cancer appears, the apparently localized nature even though we know it's a systemic problem, the apparently localized nature is simply because that particular organ or tissue was the most energetically compromised. That's why it took a hold there. Yeah. When I mentioned the idea of systemic disease to cancer doctors or patients, they really... have a hard time, just can't grasp, they've been so indoctrinated with the idea that it's a clone that develops, one single mutant cell develops into the clone, and so it's by definition the most localized thing conceivable. It's platonically localized. But way back 80, 80 or 90 years, people have been seeing... precancerous gradations surrounding any tumor. If you look at all of the signs of stem cell signals, all of the inflammatory cytokines, disturbed chromosome balance, all of those things are increased in a gradient. The field concept of cancer goes way back 200 years almost, but it just hasn't been acceptable because of this platinistic genetic determinism, clonal descent of each tumor. Have you seen the study that came out in 2015? We made huge waves. Across the oncology community if there is such a thing and basically said for over a hundred years. We've been wrong We've calling it. We've been calling it the warburg effect But now it seems that it's the actual the effect is the cause as well In other words metabolic disturbances and specifically lactic acid precede the genomic abnormalities that are seen in cancer cells and actually the cause of them not the other way around Yeah, you know lactic acid creates a reduced state, shifts the balance towards increased sulfhydryl, NADH ratio to NAD, and all of the electronic and energetic properties of cancer are initiated just by putting a lot of lactic acid into the system. Yeah i was just you know i saw i mean it was posted on one of the biggest social media sites and you could see doctors chiming in. And you know some of them being panic and saying oh my god if this is true it means you know in my practices in college i've been killing people and others are saying well it's it's too early let's see genetics we haven't heard the last of genetics yet. Let's give genetics a chance maybe maybe we'll find a way to treat it genetically but overall the mood was some. Well it was it was pessimistic for the oncologist but you know the general public that was reading this thread and responding seem to be pretty ecstatic as people immediately caught on the fact that. If cancer is metabolic and you know it's discontinuous field then it can probably reversed you don't need to subject yourself to this torture. The oncologist is giving you a large likely killing you there are other ways in the doctors were heavily arguing against it in that same thread say no people. If you choose the metabolic route you'll be killing yourselves you're signing your death warrants you should stay with a traditional therapist because until we know more. Did you ever read max gerson's book i think it's called fifty nine cases he. Coffee animals were one of his staples he generally gave people thyroid and i'm trying to get their metabolism. At. Towards oxidative energy production but cleaning the intestine was probably his single most effective thing even if he sometimes had an old person who was very debilitated he would sometimes give them a coffee animal every hour around the clock. Get them out of bed to wash their intestine again and he actually cured numerous advanced cases of cancer documented with photographs. I think chronically keeping the endotoxin down gives the recuperative system a great chance. So that would explain largely why you know recent studies with the tetracycline and the biotoxin, especially doxycycline, are reporting such remarkable effects? Yeah, in 1965 was the first time some doctor sent me an argument that he was curing cancer with antibiotics and I didn't. At that time, think of it in terms of cutting out the endotoxin, but people have been doing it repeatedly over several decades. Okay. I have to send you a, there's a press release from Harvard University. I think it's from 19, early nineties. It's about a lady that ran a cancer lab there and the news article was, it was popular press article and they said a doctor, I think Johnson is capable of curing cancer with antibiotics. Mice of little leukemia every time she wants to and how does she do that by giving them tetracycline and in the in the middle of the questions why can this be done in people and she said because it's not FDA approved and i thought to myself. What a what a stupid excuse like what is the antibiotic going to give due to these, terminally ill people what kill them i mean they're dying anyways like why not try something that's already approved for usage in people in. And it's known to be relatively safe why do we have to wait on the bureaucracy to give us approval to live why can't this be tried by good natured doctors. I've known doctors who were declared eminently dying in hospital and they wanted to try something. On their own the supervising doctors took their stuff away from them wouldn't let them. Experiment even though they were said to have only 48 hours left to live. They couldn't experiment on themselves Yeah, I remember there was a neurologist who got Neuro glioblastoma and he started injecting himself with some kind of a virus or bacteria to give himself fever because he read that fever sometimes You know cure the cancer and he was immediately declared mentally unfit and they basically committed this doctor who used to work in this hospital They locked him up in his own hospital and and you know, let him he died like a few weeks later There have been a couple of studies in which In people they accidentally noticed that women Who were given? An antibiotic course among other things that they recovered from their headaches but They did blood tests and found that before the antibiotic they had high estrogen and cortisol and low progesterone and after the course of antibiotics their progesterone went up and both cortisol and the estrogen went down both of which would favor recovery from cancer. The cortisol is weakening your immune processes for example and estrogen is stimulating the cell growth. In rats, same thing was observed. A course of antibiotics lowers cortisol and estrogen and increases progesterone. So the coffee enema or the antibiotic or a high fiber diet, all of those things are actually remedying your hormone situation. Did you know that cortisol is given to pretty much any cancer patients as kind of like a standard treatment? Along with morphine. And morphine, yes. And morphine increases histamine release. Histamine is a powerful tumor promoter, so they usually adjust the dose so that they're dead before they... notice that the tumor has grown faster. I just never cease to amaze me. The explanation of the doctors, because I used to work in the medical field, was that, well, the patient has, you know, inflammation and edema, and we need to reduce it with a cortisol. And I thought, aren't there other safer anti-inflammatory methods? Because even as ignorant as some doctors are, some of them do know that cortisol does not seem to be... helping the tumor patients. They're almost using this because by definition that's the powerful anti-inflammatory they have on file, and they have to use it. Ray, would you put Paul Ehrlich in the pantheon of people that have ruined science? So Weissman, Paul Ehrlich. And Ehrlich was the same guy that did the estrogen receptor stuff, is that right? He popularized... the whole idea of lock and key receptor specificity. That whole receptor idea is perfect for selling chemicals. Every chemical can have a receptor and so it's perfect for the chemical industry. And the holistic, ongoing... whirlwind picture of the organism, where, for example, a large dose of a chemical can have an opposite effect of a small dose. Those contradictory anti-receptor pictures are no good for the chemical industry. I have a question about the whole receptor thing. I'm sure you've probably noticed this yourself, but I looked at all of the hormones that are currently known. And then I also looked at the receptor and the receptor structure. There is a significant overlap in terms of the amino acid sequence and the structure of the various receptors. So even though, let's say, a pharmaceutical company may claim that they've developed this extremely selective, say, estrogen agonist, if you go back and look at the other studies done by other groups, you'll see, invariably, that this... that the substance that they claim is extremely selective is invariably acting on other receptors as well. So, my question is, is it even possible to develop a truly selective receptor compound, given that the various receptors have so much overlap? No, I don't think so. The whole idea of receptors is... derives from irlik, and I think it's just... right down to its foundation, corrupt. St. Georgie reviewed in one of his books ideas that Pavlov was familiar with around the turn of the century, the idea that the dose determines the effect, like a small amount of caffeine is. Sedative, a large amount is stimulating and even larger amount is narcotic and the sedatives, the dose of a sedative, a small dose will be a stimulant, a larger dose a sedative and the typical curve has been tested on. Hundreds of different substances and it consistently contradicts the idea of a specific receptor doing a specific thing. The only way you can imagine that three-phase curve working is if you think of the cell as substance or characteristic. You have to think as something which can move from one phase to another, potentially a series of phase, each phase having a characteristic behavior. So there's differentiation. It occurs in the cytoplasm as a whole, and that state of the cytoplasm evokes the expression or stabilizes the expression of the genes that are appropriate for that state. And by thinking in terms of physical states. You can visualise the quantity as reaching a threshold of cooperative phase transition happens when many things work in the same direction. So basically the whole idea of using one substance that will work in only one particular way, it's hopeless. I mean, basically the organism doesn't work like that. Yeah, you can create the illusion that it does by... setting conditions just exactly right, and then you can get the apparent specific interaction and reaction, but it's a purely artificial setup. Have you seen the recent news about the resurgence of estrogen, of hormone replacement therapy with estrogen in menopausal women? They're trying to kind of put down the whole... all the findings of the Women Health Initiative Study. and try to re-introduce estrogenous therapy. Yeah, in 1973 or 4, I saw a resurgence. About every 5 or 10 years, the actual science makes a little headway. The big headway was the Women's Health Initiative. And within 5 years, they were... The people at Stanford were instrumental in explaining why estrogen didn't really cause cancer, strokes, heart attacks, and so on. Their favorite explanation is, it's really progesterone. So, originally, estrogen... was recognized as doing certain things to the organism and they identified the estrogen receptor as a major way that it does that, even though hypoxia, in the absence of estrogen, will cause the receptor to behave the same. Estrogen creates hypoxia and activates the estrogen. The hypoxia alone will do it if something else creates it, but when they needed to explain a way that estrogen does everything that it does, they discovered the estrogen receptor beta and it turns out that almost everything that estrogen doesn't do, the beta does. It stops growth, stops all of the characteristic estrogen behaviors and pretty much parallels the actions of progesterone. Progesterone now is divided into an A and B receptor and the A receptor is activated by estrogen and inactivates the progesterone B. they're just thinking wildly of ways that they can say that progesterone is responsible for all of the bad stuff that has been blamed on estrogen. I emailed one of the authors of one of the big papers that's now calling for reintroduction of estrogen as therapy for women and I said how can we ignore all this science I mean that's that's pretty much indisputable that estrogen is carcinogenic. There is actually a page hosted on the website of the National Institutes of Health which officially defines and declares estrogen as a carcinogen and a mutagen and I said well you know your own organization I think basically that person work either used to work or works at NIH I said your own organization says that estrogen is this dangerous chemical and he said well estrogen has non genomic effects. That are actually beneficial and if we give it at lower dosages it acts as a powerful antioxidant that will remove the need for people to take vitamin E and C and you will give them all the benefit for heart protection without actually having the carcinogenic effects. Ray? Are you are you still there charging? Oh, no, did we lose do we lose Ray? Maybe we did Okay Seems like he's there maybe let me hang up and call him back Okay, Ray you're not there right? Okay, you're gonna hang up call him back These things happen. I was afraid you were frozen, too It's like could I really speak? Man, I have a serious problem if everything just froze that would be really Not good. I think I finally bore or rate to death and he's like, I'm done with this you guys keep talking Hey, let me call him back Unable to add participant is unavailable is it busy does that mean it's giving business in or something i wonder if he's trying to like call back the number which would i think be impossible i don't know we'll see okay everybody thank you so much i think we have like 250 people you know this is obviously the most people we've ever had on here so that is heartwarming um i never wanted to get rayon until i felt real comfortable with the the mechanics of this the live stream stuff and so I feel more comfortable with it. And so i'm happy to have this happen and it's everything I ever dreamed of so thanks Georgie and thank massive thanks to Ray. Let me call him back again. I wonder if there's a time limit right? You're back. Okay, we lost you for a second I didn't hear when I don't know either Georgie. Do you remember? When when when we lost it was kind of like a strange I thought my whole computer froze, but it didn't No, I was talking about the like the reintroduction of estrogen I was talking to one of the one of the authors of a big study that came out this year and I Email them and I said, well, how can you? Argue that estrogen is good considering that your own organization think that person works for the NIH has a webpage which says estrogen is a carcinogen and a mutagen. So why would you argue that estrogen is needs to be reintroduced and given to women and he said estrogen has non genomic effects that don't involve the estrogen receptor and access a powerful antioxidant so if we give it to women in the right dosage. They will. Obviate the need for them to take massive doses of vitamin e and c and you provide them with this benefit of cardiovascular protection and everything that these great antioxidants do. So i said so so how can you prevent estrogen from activating the you know these receptors that you know are causing cancer. And he basically said it's the dosage that dosage that makes the poison so they're thinking that lower dose estrogen it's going to be beneficial but i remember you said in several of these letters said that. A continuous uninterrupted exposure to a low dose of estrogen is probably more harmful than getting estrogen spikes like every you know every few days or every few weeks. Yeah that was alexander lipschutz through from about nineteen thirty eight through the nineteen forties did many animal experiments showing that even very small doses of estrogen unless they were interrupted with progesterone. We're carcinogenic not just to the uterus and breast but to the lungs kidneys brain every organ would eventually develop estrogen induced cancer. Well if estrogen is i mean if cancer is a state of chronic reductive stress and estrogen is a powerful reductant itself doesn't that. Almost guaranteed that estrogen will at the very least contribute to an already established cancer Yeah, I don't know of any case where it doesn't Okay Uh to change gears a little bit ray I think I feel like you're getting more popular on youtube and twitter and things and people say all sorts of things about why You do what you do And so maybe we could just take a second to say like why do you do what you do like? Like just from you, you know your own words because so many people just basically make up things and so I was just curious about your position on that. As part of my understanding of what I'm doing here in the world, checking ideas and looking for new perspectives. Checking what people believe and trying to avoid the bad interpretations that lead to bad actions and results, it's always part of the same process of looking for something to do. Thank you very much. And maybe just an elevator pitch of your general hypothesis, like what you say on the front of your webpage, the idea that energy and structure are interdependent at every level. Like I made a video about this not fairly recently, but it's like because the nutrition world is so stuck on different diets, like what is your, obviously this whole conversation is about how complex everything is, but your work gets to... gets reduced down to kind of a caricature of, like, you drink two gallons of milk and two gallons of orange juice and a bag of sugar, and then you're doing your repeat diet. So what is your perspective of what maintains health, and then what is the differentiator into the state of sickness? There are two simple choices. One, that the genes have... been laid out, have created a blueprint for creating the structures, and all the energy has to do is help to roll those out, and once they're in place, just to keep them running. I think that orientation leads to the idea that the... the less you live, the longer you will live, the idea that you're going to burn, burn up your, the whole apparatus will wear out the faster you use it, that all comes from the reductionist idea of a machine laid out in genetic blueprints. It's a machine powered by a Rube Goldberg system, which is 20th century science. And the other picture is the developmental picture that energy flowing from the sun through the atmosphere is... creating structures that the flow of energy itself generates structures and the faster the energy flows, the more complex the structure becomes and the more energy is saved in the system in the form of complexity of structure. And the efficiency ____________________ increases, but the waste is part of what is powering it. You don't have to think in terms of the efficiency of the system because the energy flowing through the system, even though the oxidative apparatus is getting more efficient, you're building a bigger system. Faster than the complexity and efficiency accumulates, so it's the speed with which you can waste the energy while responding to it, building your complexity that is holding up the whole structure. It's simply a picture of an ecosystem. Responding physically to energy, it doesn't violate any of the known physical laws, it uses them in more intelligent ways than the Rube Goldberg science of membranes, genes and so on. of people like St. Georgie, like Otto Warburg, like Koch and others? Yeah, even earlier, J.C. Bose was one of my first inspirations. I have a question. Do you think that this openness to new ideas that these people had, it was sort of enabled? But by their relatively faster metabolism, and or do you think it was more or less childhood experiences that set them to be that way, to be open to new opportunities and to actually actively seek them out? I think a good intrauterine environment is a tremendous part of it. Like Catherine Adalton's patients, the older kids of her patients. Had 95 average IQ, and just by treating the mothers with progesterone, her patients' kids have something like 135 average IQ, same mother, but better nourishment in utero. And that kind of a head start gives you a lot of... energy for absorbing shocks from the oppressive environment. Okay. A question related to that, to expand a little bit on that, is, as I'm sure you're familiar, sick people and sick animals tend to sort of retreat, avoid the real world, and really limit their spectrum of activity. Some of them even stop eating and basically they just want to keep to themselves and be left alone. But considering the fact that novelty and new experiences and being stimulated in the proper way is so very therapeutic, do you think these sick organisms are making a pathological choice that's not good for them based on their already poor health or do you think it's actually a choice that at least in the short term it's good for them? Basically they don't have the energy to meet the demands of the world so they're retreating and hoping that they'll recover and then they'll come back. Usually there's something specific that has happened, they've eaten something or caught an infection, got poisoned and retreat and let the body repair itself. But Paracelsus was one of the first people to put it into practice. Paracelsus' pharmacological preparation on the sword that caused the wound and spared the patient the medication and discovered that patients recovered much better without the medication. Anytime there's been an opportunity to compare medicated people with unmedicated, the ones without medicine are much healthier. Like animals, we could just... take a week or two to retreat and maybe have a milkshake now and then. People would be much healthier, more likely to survive to old age. So I guess initially it would be beneficial to retreat because you want to recover your energetic resources, but do you think that over time, if this becomes a chronic sort of isolation, self-imposed... that over time actually becomes pathological, it starts to hurt health because you've retreated so much from the world? Yeah, there are people who do that, but they need new opportunities, and the culture isn't rushing to give them healthy, new, interesting opportunities. In many cases, they retreated because their doctor told them to. You know, they say stay in your room and until I call you and until it's okay to get out. Uh, to bring it back to politics a little bit, like Ray, you think there's a way forward with the kind of the system that we have at the moment? Like you, you see glimmers of hope. Like I, I remember when you were talking to Gavin for that interview on politics when Trump had just been elected. Like, uh, it seemed like, okay, this is different. But then over time, he seems to have been absorbed into the same kind of stereotypical problems of endless war and things like that. Do you, but you, but you do see a glimmer of hope in that whole system. Do you know who M. Coulter is? Uh, I think the personification of Gooney reactionary philosophy. Weirdly, she has made some of the, uh, most insightful comments about what's going on now that, uh, uh, for example, comparing, uh, Bernie and, uh, uh, Trump, uh, she pointed out that the very things that he campaigned on, but, uh, didn't exactly fulfill, uh, keeping us out of war, um, uh, taxing the uh, untaxed corporations like Amazon and the banks, uh, and shopping immigration. Uh, Bernie has identical policies to what people were perceiving as Trump's campaign promises. Uh, and it's, uh, she says that, uh, he is Trump's real threat and the, and the polls, almost all of the polls are showing, uh, Bernie beating Trump by, uh, several points, percentage points. Uh, and, uh, uh, most, most people, uh, in, in the public media, especially the Democrats don't want to talk about that possibility that, uh, uh, uh, the same people who saw possibility in Trump, uh, avoiding war, uh, and, uh, taxing the giant corporations. Uh, that's what they see in Bernie. Uh, and, uh, so, uh, if he could run against Trump, then other, um, realistic things then would be at issue. Maybe Ann Coulter is espousing some of those, uh, you introduced me to the term, but paleoconservative a little bit, some of those ideas. I don't know what really went through Ann Calder's mind, but it was more perceptive than I've seen any of the Democrat liberals doing. The paleo-conservatives are very consistent on avoiding war, but some of their policies are really dopey. I don't know what really went through Ann Calder's mind, but it was more perceptive Well, not to get too deep into a rabbit hole on this, but things like immigration and things. I know there was, I forget the author, but it was like a book called Weapons of Mass Migration, and so I, this is not a topic I spend lots of time thinking about, but like those types of things to kind of influence the culture, and I know the Paleo Conservatives are against that, but again, I'm like reading Bucky Fuller and him saying that there shouldn't be borders and things like that, like I... I agree with that type of view, but I'm also, I don't know, I'm like torn between these different points of view of migration and things, and also living in different countries, it's not very easy to stay anywhere else aside from Mexico or America. Yeah, Bucky Fuller would say that the corollary is that you stop creating horror experiences at home, like imposing... a fascist on Honduras, where the elected president was improving, he just wanted to raise the minimum wage and barely improve things, but definitely improving. He was kicked out, Hillary Clinton oversaw putting a fascist in, and all of the... progressive labor people trying to get a minimum wage. They're being murdered, environmentalists are being murdered, and so obviously it's an improvement for them to try to get in the United States, but simply stopping the... oppression of third-world countries would stop the immigration, improve conditions. Hondurans would rather live in Honduras with a better standard of living than going to the U.S. and looking for work. Erdogan in Turkey is following the Muslim Brotherhood. Al Qaeda, allying with Al Qaeda and ending up creating more refugees and trying to send them to Europe, to force Europe to send an army in to give Syria to him. If you simply stop supporting the murder and the oppression. In places like like Turkey and the Honduras You would stop the immigration problem. And that's from the imperialist US war machine Yeah, I Think it's more than the US involved here I think there are a number of imperialists in this world that are acting in concert with the United States and And often actually spearheading the war in certain places of the world even more more than the United States I mean, Russia and Turkey, just as you said, Dr. Pete, and France and Germany, they all have competing interests in the Middle East, Israel, of course, Saudi Arabia, Iran, right? So, you know, the United States gets a lot of the blame being the largest empire of them all. But I think there are plenty of other countries that are at least as evil in this specific case, probably even more so than the United States. There's just a number of soldiers. Maintained in other people's countries, the U.S. is by far the leader. think that this empire or any empire can be reformed. All I saw in history was empires either expanding, reaching their peak and then either sort of like gently fading into oblivion or collapsing almost overnight. I never saw a case of a peaceful, semi-peaceful or even constructive reform of an empire. Yeah, I think Trump theoretically had that in mind. a controlled collapse of the empire, withdrawing the army more or less quickly. But the imperialists in the military, for example, don't want to lose their power. But if Bernie could actually run against him, I think between them, they would die. They would possibly recruit more supporters for bringing the empire down fairly quickly. And what would that entail in your view, bringing down the empire? Would it be simply end of the world wars that the military machine has started? Or do you mean a more radical social change at home? If you freed up the Pentagon budget … for example, 90% of it putting the U.S. on a scale with other big countries … that amount of money removed from military destruction could far more than finance any kind of Bernie Sanders programs, free college. I just don't see the powers that be relinquishing that war machine because that is the source of their power and whoever gets elected in my view will be either undermined politically or maybe even worse. This country has already seen an assassination of a president, and apparently, if you believe other historical sources, attempted assassinations on other presidents that weren't playing ball. I read the JFK, The Unspeakable, that gives a very close view of how Kennedy was backing off from the empire, and they didn't. I think even Trump realizes that same mechanism being in action, and he has his own Secret Service, for example. The Secret Service pretty obviously was involved in killing Kennedy, and Trump knew enough to... have his own private security rather than the Secret Service. He has repeatedly tried to sign the agreement with the Taliban. Pompeo keeps sabotaging it, but Trump keeps going back and trying to keep the withdrawal on schedule. I think more than anyone else in the government, he is making efforts to shut down. The war system and then how does somebody like Pompeo rise to power? The guy is a total like total nut like I just listened to some of his like speaking and I it's just I know it's nothing new but it's just it's like shocking to even hear him talk about his kind of machinations and things about what's going to happen in the future. The Armageddon crowd was in Reagan's government too. The Interior Minister said, the end is near, let's mine it all, get it before the end. Well, that really seems to be the premise they're all operating on, is that the end is coming soon and nothing matters, you know, so that's why maybe that validates endless war and things like that, so. That's literally true of a lot of this. People like Pompeo. and often actively oppose change. At least that's my personal impression. Don't you think this needs to be improved before some radical social change can actually take hold? Yes, that's why I emphasize biology and health thinking to get people to realize that they're dying on this path and that they have to change something radically. Simply save their own health, they've got to change the system, which is pumping, it isn't carbon dioxide, it's a thousand different toxins being pumped into the atmosphere and food supply that is killing people, vaccines and fake foods, I think. The movie VAXED and the various movements against genetically modified food and so on, that's a wedge that people can start to see their own survival and their children, depending on bringing this industrial system. To some kind of a safe conclusion. OK, in one of one of your first interviews with Danny, both of you were talking about panic and organizing the panic that actually might might have been curious, but God. Oh yeah, but i think doctor peter opine on that as well so let's say you know the average person on the street date you give them all this information they say okay i see it in my own life i believe you. I do understand that that the system is killing me and i'm shaking with anxiety because i don't know what to do what would be your response to a person like that where do they start. Getting organized and that's exactly where the power system exists is any impulse towards organization gets interrupted. All kinds of interruptions, firing them from their jobs so they don't have access to the same resources, new ways of organizing have to develop. So, do you think that the cultural push in the Western world towards extreme individualism is going to change the culture of the Western world? Is a thinly veiled attempt at basically implementing this isolation so that people don't trust each other and refuse to organize? Yes, that's at the heart of preventing organization. In the 1930s, there was a religious movement called moral rearmament. That organization still exists, but it was a Christian movement. A movement with branches still in this country and in Europe, religious reasons why you should destroy unions, but it applies to any kind of social progress, making change that impinges on the corporations and banks. Right, but at the same time, organized religion is probably like a prime example of, of, of like a, you know, organization, right, of getting people into groups and getting them to act upon a common goal. So it could go either way, right? If it's, if it's in the right hands, organization can be very powerful and an impetus for change. But if, if it gets compromised from within by agents of the powers that be and whatnot, then people can be duped into sort of, They think they're working towards the common good, but in reality, they're just maintaining the status quo. Yeah, the CIA and FBI are several stages ahead of everyone organizing. Anything you think of, they've got it covered. Like Occupy Wall Street, they put organizers in who... helped to prevent any constructive organizational outcome. But they had snipers on the roofs ready to kill the leaders if anyone organized something that actually led to action. Okay, so what would be... I mean, I'm trying to guess because regular people are aware of that as well, many of them. So they seem to have a choice between... taking the risk at organizing and participating in a group and then this group being undermined and they're working now they're working in favor of the empire versus you know avoiding participation in a bad activity which you you have also spoken in favor of in the past but then but not really having enough power to enact change because they're on their own where is the is there a middle ground or that would it depend every single time on the situation I think it will change as cultural ideas evolve, but I think the first thing is to just start lots of organizations, two or three people in a group deciding on possible courses of action and creating networks of just little personal interaction groups. But linking them up and being aware that the organizations have to stay flexible in terms of basically about a million little groups with openness to interact with other groups at different levels. So basically create a large number of smaller organizations that will be much harder to subvert just because the FBI doesn't have that manpower that much manpower. Yeah they've had I don't know maybe a million people attending to breaking up organizations but if you have two million little groups developing it will overwhelm their their manpower. Advantage, like the communists used to say that for every actual communist party member, there were two or three FBI agents. Promoting domestic terror and stuff or getting people to do things. They otherwise wouldn't do like What was that famous quote that like the FBI is behind most terrorist attacks in the US or something like that? Yeah Yeah, but that has been documented over and over the people throwing rocks in Demonstrations are usually local police or FBI. What was it the Ferguson rap was am I thinking of the right place? but there provocateurs like breaking windows and they were flown in on planes to go like cause havoc during peaceful protests and stuff so yeah yeah and like in the ukraine there was oh yeah snipers i was shooting both sides and then people are so politically charged that they can't kind of see the force for the trees and then so it's like this bad ideology on top of the the corruption and the infiltration of both sides. Oh, I want to talk a little bit about consciousness, let's, let's, let's finish politics, let's talk about consciousness. So we're up to about two hours. And so I, Ray, I don't want to keep you all day. Let's kind of end on consciousness. And we have like 250 people listening right now. So Ray, Georgie, thank you so much for making this possible. Obviously a special live stream. So yeah, go for it, Georgie. Um, yeah, in, in, in one of your books, actually, I think it was the mind and tissue where you said that consciousness at its very basis is the orienting reflex, right? Um, so my question is, relates to, um, physiologically, what does that look like? Because there have been a number of studies coming out recently that are saying we, uh, that medicine and neurology have been looking at consciousness the wrong way. They're calling it the hard problem of consciousness because by analyzing the brain and all of the interactions of the neurons, they can't possibly explain the richness of personal experience and they call in this thing qualia. And now they're proposing that maybe it's consciousness that's fundamental and it's a property of matter. It just varies in terms of its complexity depending on the object or, you know, the piece of matter that we're actually observing. So there's an ancient Hindu proverb which says that the spirit of God sleeps in stone, dreams in animals, and awakens in man. So my question is, how do you see that statement that consciousness is potentially a very basic property of matter and it's the complexity of the structure of this matter that determines how high level of this consciousness would be? Does that sound about right? Exactly. I formulated it that way. 1957, I think, was the first time I said consciousness is the organized flow of... is energy through matter, but I have revised it to think of consciousness as a substance in itself. Since substances are defined empirically, matter is defined empirically as we experience it, I think it's proper to think of consciousness as a substance. For example, the donor acceptor molecules contributing an electron flowing through muscle causes it to contract. I think that same donor acceptor relationship activates a constant oscillation of excited electrons through... the neurons and between the neurons even that these it's a substance analogous to the conductive electron bands in metal but it's the electrons are existing on the soft cytoplasmic material when the energy is properly activated by the oxidative acceptor function, raising electrons, creating holes basically for electrons to flow through the properly oxidized substance. It's like having a fire get wet when you have too many electrons. It fills the holes and prevents the... the luminous function, the perfume guy, I can't think of his name right now... Tonini? Was it Tonini or no? No. It starts with a T, T I think. Yeah. Anyway, he sees odors as being resonant. Not the shape of the molecule, but the electronic ability to resonate. Going back to P.K. Anokhin, for example, I think he saw his acceptor of action consciousness model as... Existing as an excited electron substance, which follows the rules of Gestalt psychology, actually space filling material of electron, sort of a plasma, actually being what we experience the... the light that we experience as red, white, blue, green, and so on. I think there is actually that frequency resonating in our brain tissue, an odor, I believe the actual chemical pattern of that odor is what we experience. The consciousness of smelling a chemical, that structure exists in space and each of the senses, I think, involves the certain frequency or energy level of the electrons so that touch... has a limited spatial ability, the vision is the one that tends to be coherent, forming complexly coherent structures of meaning. So if I understand it correctly, as a result of metabolism, there is a directed electron flow from food to oxygen, right? And that donor-acceptor relationship causes the molecules in the cells to vibrate. And if they vibrate at the same frequency, I'm guessing certain amount of like a minimum, I guess, a base number of neurons, if they vibrate at the same frequency, that creates a resonance field, which is, I guess, the basis of consciousness. And the qualia. In one of his books, P.K. Anokhin goes through a series of articles showing that the mechanical behavior of the auditory nerve, for example, can't carry the information that we actually experience flowing in on the auditory nerve. He has various arguments showing that ________________ much more information is carried per second than nerve firing could possibly account for. So it isn't information, it's actually the substance that we are experiencing. So given the infinite richness of experience and the infinite richness of quality, wouldn't that imply that the brain cells would be capable of ________________? ________________? You ________________ full spectrum, green, with meaning. It resonates over into the feeling of religious meaning or the intensity of the meaning. It isn't just one frequency, one meaning. It's the intensity and saturation of that particular frequency and then the architectural structures built on those so you could perceive Mozart or Beethoven almost at the level of descriptive, rational listening, or you could have... a full energy flow, like a high-fi consciousness, where everything, all of the senses are resonating full intensity. So basically the range of frequencies that the brain is capable of producing is limited, but their combination is infinite. So that's what... OK. The auditory frequencies are... we're actually transmitting the full range of frequencies. And a young person can actually experience all the way up to 35,000 or 40,000 cycles per second, like a porpoise. And those are... actually, tuned processes of the electrons resonating at those actual frequencies. And the frequencies of nerve firing are nothing really related to consciousness. They are like the infrastructure maintaining energy production and substance distribution. But the experience is floating over the infrastructure. So speaking of residents, I'm sure you're familiar with the publications of Rupert Sheldrake, I think is his name, about the morphogenetic fields and how we are essentially tapping into the same pool of knowledge and any single person learning enriches that pool of knowledge and then any other person could actually tap into that. sort of get access to that that new knowledge. So he's in, he's in this morphogenic tradition going all the way back to Berta and earlier, but it's a, it's the actual living side of science, not the abstract militarist, Platonist side of science. So if two people are resonating, so to speak, if their consciousness are resonating and almost merging in a sense, is there a limit to the distance that these people can be separated with in order for this to occur? Or is this like a global universal phenomenon, no matter where these consciousness capable pieces of matter are? Puharich, did you ever read any of his books? Adria Puharich? I haven't. He, I think, makes a satisfactory case for the whole earth resonance. I think that the communication can probably be called, carried on. Like a carrier wave on the earth's resonance frequencies modulating, I think each brain can modulate that carrier wave of the earth's electromagnetic field. So the Schumann resonance frequencies could potentially be those carrier waves that allow for the unification of consciousness of organisms on earth? Yeah, the Canadian......psychologist who invented the God Helmet, an electronic helmet that stimulated the brain so that people had religious experiences. Pershing, yeah, he suggests that we're tapping into the planetary carrier wave. Okay, so since we're on the sort of like resonance of consciousness in distance... As you've written many times about David Bohm, and I'm a great fan of his work and writings, he was writing that it's actually a universal consciousness that we're all part of, and there is a guiding pilot wave slash carrier wave of which all of us are minor offshoots. I didn't hear who you said. David Bohm, the quantum physicist? Oh, oh, oh, yeah, yeah. And he was basically saying that there's two kinds of order, the implicated order and the explicated order, and then the explicated order arises out of the infinite implicated order in a creative manner, right? And we've talked about this process of constant creation of both matter and meaning and knowledge. How do we participate in this creative process? Because... Do we also create matter ourselves? I mean, I know the Earth does, the stars do, right? And probably the ethereal medium of the universe itself does, but how do we participate in that creative process? I don't know. David Baum was of the opinion that we are integral to the creative process of the universe, but unfortunately he didn't elaborate how. Yeah, I... I intuit that that's true, but I don't know how either, but I think it is most closely connected to this electronic jelly substance of consciousness or whatever is flowing through any substance according to its structure. But ______________ noticed that ______________ in the universe, stars, planets, moons, and so on, where emitting energy in proportion to their mass. And he believed that the passage of time was a source of energy. He simply says that energy comes out of the system, whatever matter is. But he didn't have all of the planet's mass accurately connected to what was known about their emission of heat. But just in recent years, that was about 60 years ago, he wrote that. But just in recent years, the satellites have measured the emission of the outer big planets and found that there is an anomalous energy that corresponds to the mass rather than their position from the sun. So it's a big confirmation of Kozirev's idea that the mere passage of time... and any mass is going to be emitting energy, so it's like we're all a fountain of energy of some sort. So a question on Kozirev and stars, because actually that was the top question I was going to ask you tonight, and you brought it up yourself. As you know, he did a lot of experiments on measuring and creating time based on different processes. Dissipating processes that basically emit heat, he said they produce time and that other processes that are sort of, you know, dropping in temperature, they can actually accept time, they can absorb time. So what do you think time is in terms of a physical entity? My best guess is that Horace Dudley was right. He described it as the neutrino sea. At that time, neutrinos were thought to have no energy, but he proposed that they do have energy and that they associate with matter according to its mass and that... nuclear, so-called nuclear energy is converting, in conventional thinking, converting mass to energy or in this view, it simply being through time, passing through time as a mass that allows these......neutrinos to interact and crystals, Horace Dudley suggested that the crystalline structure of matter was, in some way, in charge of how the neutrinos resonate, that there's a space filling. Resonance of neutrinos corresponding to the orderly arrangement of crystals that he suggested could cause nuclear reactions to occur unpredicted. Simultaneously with his proposing that theory, an experimental physicist named Anderson observed that a monolayer of carbon ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ __________ isotopes on aluminum foil had a non-random nuclear decay that Dudley had predicted that sort of thing that an orderly arrangement of matter such as a surface would interact with the neutrino sea in a way that would draw on the energy of the nucleus. But anyway, my inference from those two bits of data is that the brain, this structure of donor-acceptor activated gel of electrons. My idea is that this structure of the brain is like the surface of the aluminum foil, able to tap into the energy of the neutrino C. This is where the introduction of novelty as well as energy comes from. I read an interpretation of Aristotle recently that said that ______________________________________________________ It was by a quantum physicist and he said that everybody has struggled with the definition of time, of what time is, and how it relates to us. And apparently Aristotle got pretty close he said in one of his writings apparently, I haven't seen the actual one, but he said that time is simply the amount of potentiality that it has converted to actuality for any given system. Does that sound about right? Sounds right. Okay, and last question related to consciousness, if the stars are perhaps the most intense entities with the most intense metabolism, for a lack of a better word, would you say that they possess a type of consciousness, perhaps even higher than ours? I would think a galaxy, the streaming shape creating forces of galaxies are probably conscious. There's no more streaming.  Energy through matter than the galaxy in action, but I think our brains are rivaling the galaxies for the complexity of activated substance that we're trying to imitate the galaxy energy with actual physical creation of substance. That's remarkable, I don't know if you know but Aristotle said that in his classification there were very few pure actualities and he said that humans, galaxies, stars, and I think he mentioned one other thing cosmological, I'm forgetting what it is, but in his view those were the only actualities. So he was placing them at the same level, I'm guessing in terms of development as you are. Yeah, yeah, that sounds right. Okay. I don't have any other questions. Speaking of, this is neither here nor there, but have you guys, there's like a special type of camera that's fairly new that can accurately zoom in on stars and planets. And the footage these people are taking of the stars and planets looks literally like nothing I've ever seen before, but they look like big balls of kind of multicolored energy. Like, that's how I would describe it, but Ray, are you familiar with that at all? No, I'll forward you with them, but it's like it's a lot of the flat Earth people use it to say that NASA is lying about everything, but I think it's just interesting that we're actually like just random people are able to take really interesting video of stars. OK, so I guess we'll end it there. Let me just read. Uh, so. Ray, I don't know if you if you know how it works, but people do super chats and a big group of people have accumulated $794. So whatever YouTube takes of that, I will forward to you, Ray. And I appreciate you being on here. And let me just read. We won't be able to get to people's questions because that would we would be on here for hours. And so Oscar Gomez, Oscar Gomez, TC, Intelligent Evolution, Anna Tanska. Intelligent Evolution, Christina Tomas, Matthew Riley, Matthew Riley, again, Ruth Kazo, Kirk, three, three, three, Zuber, Kirk, three, three, three, again, Chris H, Harrison, Ben, Gene, Philippe, Grow, Kindsign, butchering that name, Matthew Riley, Harry Burgos, Harrison, Ben, Harrison, Ben, again, Francis, Bacon, Cheeseburger, Harrison, Ben, Sandy, Miss T. Roger, Chair, HT, NewHealth, Michael, Veronica, Ayala, NewHealth, Veronica, Ayala again, Yanny, Matras, Kostas, Elliot, Cactus, Elliot, Cactus again, huge Ray Pete fan, huge Ray Pete fan again, Milk and Honey, Milk and Honey again, Milk and Honey, multiple super chats from Milk and Honey, thank you for that, Monty did multiple super chats, thank you for that, Geo, thank you for that, Turkish Postman, I think we just got one more, DBO514, thank you guys so much, I apologize for not being able to read your questions, Georgie and I can like devote an entire episode to trying to answer these questions, any parting words, Ray, can you tell people how to obtain your newsletter? You can email raypeatsnewsletter at gmail.com and see if you can have people come up with ideas and create new organizations. I love it. I love it. So and then Georgie any parting words? A question for Dr. Peet in terms of ideas for scientific studies that he thinks are worth replicating. I mean, I'm I haven't mentioned it I mentioned previous podcasts with Danny but I I'm privileged enough to start being able to make my own studies and I'm was thinking of doing one on on the essential fatty acid depletion. And trying to prove that all of the cuz there's only one by the birds in the nineteen thirties some trying to prove that really all of these. Symptoms of fatty acid essential fatty acid deficiencies they were seeing. We're just you know deficiencies specific nutrients and maybe insufficient amount of calories and things like that anything else in any other. Seminole idea that you think is really currently being twisted and poisoning the scientific in the medical world that we can try and test and sort of show the exact opposite. Thank you. If I think of something I'll contact you Okay, understood. Thank you. Great. Stay on the line. I'm going to kind of wrap things up guys Thank you so much like 250 people in the chat right now guys sincerely appreciate it Thank you so much to Ray for making this possible and just being endless Inspiration, you know in such a humble guy and I'm sure I don't I can't speak for only for myself But changing so many people's lives and thank you, Georgie. For doing the show with me so often, and this is just a special live stream. So thank you guys so much for making this possible. Ray, stay on the line. We'll talk to you after, and I'm going to wrap things up here. Everybody, thank you so much. We'll see you guys. And I'll see you next week, I think, with Tim. Okay, guys, take care. Thank you. And I'll see you next week. Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.