 You You You Really?relaxing music thanks for watching!..... Thanks for watching! so you Thanks for watching! Компенсация вам всемmadamh science клюкинг и фэд apologize Клев г kalian�They wanted one They wanted one They wanted one Look, Look snapped Look, Look snapped Look, Look snapped Thank you so much for watching this video. If you have any questions or other problems, please post them in the comments. We will try to answer as many of them as possible. Thank you so much for watching this video. Thank you so much for watching this video. Thank you so much for watching this video. Thank you so much for watching this video. SUBSCRIBE Talk to you later. and and and and and and and a a a a a a. I will never be I will never be I will never be Launching The first Thanks for watching! find out later. And that is it, if you've liked today's tutorial, then smash the Like button and subscribe to my channel. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, You Thanks for watching!................ Thanks for watching! Music If you want to know more, get ready. Adjust this to add more volume to your video. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a Music Ninh Ly – www.ninh.co.uk – And that's it for this kitty. the the the the the Thanks for watching! We'll start in a minute. Ninh Ly, www.ninh.co.uk, www.ninh.co.uk, www.ninh.co.ukivity.AAAAAAHHHHHH I know Thanks for watching! Music I'll see you guys in the next one. Okay, hello everybody, welcome to the show. I just interrupted Ray and he was talking about the CIA and art and so Ray go ahead and reiterate or say whatever you were going to say before I interrupted you. Oh just the traditions in painting had accumulated lots of knowledge from the time of Michelangelo and the older older so-called classical paintings they had been learning actual physical principles about light and geometry and and teaching their art students a sort of an aspect of physics to use in representing the world and then the first world war the Dada surrealist reaction and Freudianism rejected the whole so-called rational system that created such terrible things as the world war. And that went with a lot of experimentation in both the arts and sciences and humanities. Trying out different things, and Hitler closed all of the experimental art schools and descending science programs and such, but right during and after the Second World War, the CIA created the thing they called the O. Congress for Cultural Freedom, in which they imposed that revolutionary attitude towards painting, destroying the old because of its connection to the corrupt system, but they put it out as the glory of Western culture, cultural freedom. And Siqueiros, the Mexican painter, called it ghost art, imposed by the Rockefellers to destroy consciousness, abstract expressionism, for example, all of the abstract approaches to art. Activities of the CIA through the Cultural Freedom Foundation shamed and expelled from the universities the traditional people who preserved the great tradition in painting so that a whole generation of painters in the universities didn't learn how to paint at all. And we're just now beginning to come out of that phase where the whole culture was deliberately being destroyed and rerouted down the Rockefeller ghost art route to destroy actual understanding. Thank you. I see Noam Chomsky's linguistics, so-called, as being one of the most powerful examples of that. Real linguistics had developed with Franz Boas and his students. And they had created descriptions of understanding. of a great variety of language and culture. That sort of a peak idea was the Horfian hypothesis, showing the absolute interaction between conceptual understanding of the world and how the language is structured. And that was the way. Understanding the role of language behind science and art and culture. The way that language can propagandistically destroy understanding of reality. That was part of the real tradition of linguistics. At MIT, with Pentagon funding. The trend under Noam Chomsky was to throw out everything that was real in the linguistics tradition and substitute a mysticism-based view of consciousness in which words are essentially determined by genes. It's a long story that many historians of language have looked back on and pointed out that his so-called generative linguistics, generative grammar, couldn't generate anything and wasn't a grammar. It was a total fraud, but school textbooks, high school books incorporated his ideas supposedly since it described language production in terms of a language apparatus which is genetically determined as supposedly learning is. So-called linguistics would make it easier to understand the English language or whatever language you're studying, and they actually sold those books to school boards across the country. Absolutely destructive, not only useless, but destroying a consciousness of how language really works. When he got famous for his anti-imperialism, the world just sort of politely forgot how fraudulent his linguistics work had been. Fraudulent in the direction of opening the philosophical world to accept whatever the Pentagon and CIA wanted to. substitute for consciousness. Do you suspect he was working under the direction of anybody specific? No, I think he was one of the originators, having grown up studying mysticism. It blended right into, I think he believed in that mystical idea. That there is no consciousness other than words, which in a fairly recent video he was explaining that dogs can't think, animals can't think because they don't have words. But he said the, I forget, a canine or dog, he spelled out, he said if they heard me say dogs, they would... I got excited and think we were going somewhere. So he was saying dogs don't have consciousness because they don't have words, but then he had to spell out the word because he didn't want to get the dogs excited. Are you going to say something, Georgie? Oh, Georgie, your audio. Yeah, I think you're muted, Georgie. Can you hear me now? Yeah, now you're good. Yeah. So we're in the experiments in North Carolina with deaf and mute people that the state thought there were, you know, I guess using Chomsky's theory, they thought that these were complete cretins that had like no consciousness, no feelings, no mind, and they actually forcibly sterilized them. And then later on, somebody did IQ tests on those people and turned out that they're perfectly intelligent. So doesn't that invalidate Chomsky's theory directly? How was history connected because of their speech? Yeah, exactly. So they, I mean, these people had no language, right? They were born deaf and mute and all they could do basically is like, I mean, they had sign language, which eventually they learned, but initially they had no language and all they had is perception and visual perception and tactile perception. And when when psychiatrists did IQ tests on them turned out that these Some of them were like slightly behind but most of them had normal intelligence. So It's difficult to argue that chomsky was right because this directly proves even in humans People with no language are perfectly capable of conscious experience Yeah, yeah everything in reality have falsifies chomsky Why is this guy still a tenor professor at mit then is it just inertia Um It will at the same time he was creating his anti-linguistics, anti-science doctrine of generative grammar. One of his students said that even though the press all through the US was saying Chomsky has explained how the brain creates language, he— in person said, when he says generate, he means it in the mathematical sense of account for. He was knowing that the people were being misled, that he was aware that it wouldn't actually generate anything that was useful—useless for that purpose. But at the same time, he was doing that. Norbert Wiener, with his more holistic approach to cybernetics, a non-digital analog approach, he was present at MIT, but because he criticized war wouldn't take money from the Pentagon. He was ostracized. Chomsky was glad to receive funding from the Pentagon. He was a supporter of a Pentagon rocket man to be chancellor of MIT, very close to the Pentagon, powered and taking their money. And being, in a way, the Pentagon's pet anti-imperialist. Chomsky used to be a close associate, if not even a friend, of Marvin Minsky, one of the creators of the AI movement. And I think Minsky greatly disagreed with Chomsky's theory that language is genetically determined because Minsky said, listen, if that's the case, we should have been able by now to create an algorithm that would allow a computer to generate and learn a language de novo. And we miserably failed every time we tried. Yeah, that's what Chomsky led the public to believe he had. But a couple of times when I was teaching linguistics, nationally known linguists would go around basically propagandizing. And when they would come to my class to talk, I would have a chance to explain what was wrong with Chomsky's thing. I pointed out that you can create a sentence if you pick out the right system, right series of his rules, you can create a sentence. A sentence in any language in the world, but only if you know what sentences you want to produce, to know what series to choose your rules in. You can't make a sentence that you don't know already applying his rules. The choice of the rules, it has to be guided by the finished sentence. A couple of them actually understood the concept, you can see that they only took them a couple of minutes to forget it. In one of your articles you said that the real structure of language is images, based on images. So if I understand this correctly, language comes after perception, just like anything else in this world. So if language is based on images, is the fundamental structure of language based in physical brain structure, which always changes with time and experience? Yeah, the brain structure as formed by interaction with the world. So in other words, metabolic rate, which greatly influences changes in brain structure, it may be the ultimate determinant in the evolution of language? Yeah, you can analyze language. Someone looked at letters, at nuns. They had written in their 20s, and then they knew the outcome. And those who developed Alzheimer's at a relatively young age, they could see that their language structure in their 20s was simplified, and at a young age with a lot of mental energy, they could see that their language structure was simplified. Language structure is extremely complex and unique. Every situation demands a fundamental rethinking of the whole thing. And so there is real uniqueness in everything a healthy person says. And when the mental energy is lower......what you get is strings of cliches. So basically the ability to turn experiences into language depends on the metabolic rate, vitally. Yeah. And the summation of that is Chomsky was too addicted to the MIT Epstein money to change his ways? To change his what? To change his ways? Change his theories? He was too committed to them? I'm just... Joking. Didn't Epstein work at MIT? Oh, not that I heard of. Oh yeah, late, just a little while before he was notorious, he was funding one of their programs, and the guy who accepted his funding was embarrassed and quit. I think that Kim and Minsky collaborated on a few things, or at least Epstein sponsored some of Minsky's research. At least that's what I saw recently on the global research site and some of the other more peripheral ones, which seem to be speaking more truth than mainstream media has cumulatively done over the century. Well, speaking of that, so obviously we'll talk about all those things, but first I wanted to... chat about Ray's newsletter, and then we could kind of go off the deep end on all the coronavirus stuff. And so, Ray, you just sent out your Ray Pete's newsletter, Estrogen, Iron, Degenerative, Aging, and Progesterone. And again, it's insane to me that you're good. I was going to say, I thought you were putting together new parts of the puzzle, and I thought it was just amazing that you're still synthesizing these new ideas all every two months. You know, so I thought it was a fantastic newsletter. What was your motivation behind writing it? I'm just noticing that people weren't putting two and two together over the years. Stuff that people could have been actually doing serious work on 50 years ago. No one really has the motivation or energy to draw the conclusions. Incidentally, some people probably still don't have their copy of it because the gmail is limiting it to a certain number every 24 hours and so I think about half of them still haven't gone through. Bummer. If you need any help with that, let us know obviously. Thanks for watching, and we'll see you next time. What were some of the major points? Like, you're obviously conversing with the public all the time, you know, what are the huge misconceptions that you feel like this newsletter covered that are just repeated over and over that you think are incorrect? That working on one part of it, like taking an aromatase inhibitor, isn't going to solve very much. And at the same time, it's improving one thing that is likely to be making something else worse. And so to look at the whole process as far as you can, and think of how you can remedy things with the least risk of doing more damage. I have a question on one of the main themes that you have there, which says that osteoporosis and dementia are associated with iron overload, but they're also associated with an increased likelihood of anemia. So what would be your understanding of anemia, just low ferritin and low iron saturation? You know anemia, low blood, low hematocrit and low hemoglobin, and... About 50 years ago someone was studying the health of California migrant workers and found that the kids running around somewhat hungry and dirty were healthier than the local middle class Anglo kids and that one of their... features the immigrant very poor kids had I think a hemoglobin of 10 or 10 and a half something like that and it isn't just malaria in Africa that flares up and kills people when they give them an iron supplement but... right in the US they can see that so-called anemic kids are healthier than the ones with the so-called normal levels of hematocrit and hemoglobin so by our iron overload you mean the accumulation of unusable iron in the forms of lipofuscin and other iron complexes? estrogen is one of the things that causes you to retain iron but protectively lowers your hemoglobin and hematocrit and for a hundred years doctors have looked at the women sometimes with very low hematocrit or hemoglobin and prescribed. Iron fields and kept prescribing it, even if their hemoglobin got lower, not understanding that the same thing that makes them overload on the iron is blocking their bone marrow formation of red blood cells. The well-known effects of increasing hematocrit and hemoglobin under the effect of androgens, is that due to the opposition of androgens to estrogen or a direct effect of androgens? Both direct on the bone marrow, in particular, stabilizes it and helps it get warmer. More productive estrogen tends to lower the temperature and that goes, among other things, with a tendency to inflammation and iron toxicity. Have you seen those studies that claim that the purpose, apparently, of fever is to deplete serum, iron, and tryptophan, which helps greatly in fighting off an infection? Yeah, and it reduces all sorts of cytokines. Chilling creates inflammation, secreting inflammatory cytokines, and causes cells to take up water, and the falling temperature is not only a sign of that. It's one of the mechanisms by which estrogen changes the body physiology. Well, can you run through the calcium metabolism and how that leads to the accumulation of iron? Like what does, what does parathyroid hormone have to do with iron overload? The way parathyroid works, for example, under stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, that system activates the parathyroid hormone. The keratonin proinflammatory activates the parathyroid to provide more calcium. to the bloodstream by taking it out of the bone. The way it takes it out of the bone is to suppress the formation of carbon dioxide because carbon dioxide helps the present calcium to crystallize into the bone as calcium carbonate. And when the CO2 production is lowered, it's replaced by glycolytic production of lactic acid and the lactic acid in itself helps to dissolve the bone. The pH isn't the thing because you can have... a low pH with CO2 forming bone and the same pH with lactic acid disassembling the bone. And in all the rest of your tissues, including the cells in your bone making the lactic acid, all of the intracellular processes of blood vessels in particular suffer. When they shift from producing carbon dioxide to producing lactate, the intracellular pH rises, increasing the negative ionization of the cell proteins, increasing their affinity for metals with a positive charge. Ionized calcium with two positive charges, iron, aluminum, lead and any other metal that is present will be stuck inside your soft tissue cells along with the calcium, especially if the calcium is deficient in your diet. You will be taking up more iron, aluminum. Lead, whatever is present in your intestine. So the more calcium deficient you are, the more parathyroid hormone you make, and the more other metals will be present under the influence of parathyroid hormone to crystallize, poisoning your... blood vessels, and brain cells, and kidney cells, and pretty much everywhere. In Gilbert Link's theory, potassium, which is another alkali mineral, has the highest affinity for the intracellular proteins. How are these other metals, such as sodium, calcium, and iron, able to displace potassium and disrupt the structure that potassium forms in the proteins? The carbon dioxide......causes its affinity for electrons as an acidic Lewis acid molecule. As it associates with the proteins, the electrons are retracted, making the electron cloud holding the potassium proton. Holding the potassium alternatively with protons, making it experience a lower attractive concentration of electrons, and since the water polarization of the big potassium atom doesn't interfere with that lower electronic attractive field, the potassium is strongly attracted even to an electron retracted protein, but as the carbon dioxide is decreased and the pH rises under the influence of forming lactic acid, then the electron cloud on the protein is no longer retracted towards the CO2, but it forms a more intense concentration of negative charge, which will overcome the highly polarized water layers around sodium, for example, but also around other highly concentrated positive charges. Once the sodium starts displacing the potassium, then the calcium and mercury and iron will have a chance to get in at the same time as the calcium. So you're saying that the... during the production of... during the elevation of lactic acid production, intracellular pH rises, but that's because the cell quickly expels the lactic acid it produces, right? That's what... that's what raising the pH, because if the lactic acid stays inside, the pH will drop and the cell will probably die. Yeah, yeah, but the lactic acid quickly moves out of the cell and acidifies the environment, creating other problems, activating... inflammatory signals and so on, but what happens inside when the lactic acid leaves is an increased pH because of the way the NADH handles its protons. Does lactic acid increase the reactivity of iron? I don't recall. How do they interact directly? Okay, so iron, basically, by being in the body, if there are a lot of reactive oxygen species, they're the ones that turn iron into the reactive form, which is the ferrous iron, and that's what attacks the polyunsaturated fats? Mm-hmm. The CO2 is known to have an inactivating effect on iron. Uh, uh, h-helping to, uh, k-keep it in a relatively oxidized, uh, state because of that acid property of CO2, uh, and, uh, just by displacing CO2, then, uh, lactic acid is, uh, in effect, uh, uh, l-likely to make iron more reactive, uh, when, when you reduce, uh, uh, the, uh, cripply. Uh, ionized ferric iron, uh, uh, you get the highly reactive ferric iron, uh, so the reducing property of, of, uh, lactic acid, uh, i-it is, uh, uh, for sure going to, uh, create iron damage. Well, and in that case, the reactive oxygen species are also a problem because they also have the re-this reductive effect, right? I mean, so keeping the metabolic rate high... and preventing the leakage of these reactive oxygen species through the membrane, keeping their numbers low, is another thing that will like limit the activation of iron and turning me into the reactive form. Yeah, it's a whole flowing system that changes the nature of the cytoplasmic substance. It's a process that isn't just an adding of... a lot of little events, but the way Gilbert Ling saw it was that the nature of the substance of the cell has these different ways of existing. What is the direct conductor of this whole process? I mean, in some articles you mentioned thyroid and other CO2, but I guess the main effector of these beneficial changes which... keep the intracellular pH low, keep the iron from getting into the reactive state, keep the electron flow going. It seems that all of this, the direct agent is carbon dioxide, but the thyroid is just the cause of the creation of carbon dioxide. Yeah, the CO2 is the most pervasive and powerful and immediate causer. It simultaneously goes with your consciousness, your level of motivation and sensitivity and all of those things. All of the life properties correspond to basically the level of CO2 in your tissue. In your estimation, is parathyroid hormone one of the strongest stimulators of lactic acid production? Yeah, as I presently understand it. So all things being equal, if you were to be injected with estrogen or serotonin or PTH, PTH would be the worst out of all of those? Yeah, except that estrogen ends up increasing your PTH. Well, I was talking to Kate Deering, we were trading emails back and forth, and we were trying to figure something out, and I realized I had like a, um. Estrogen increases parathyroid hormone, prolactin increases parathyroid hormone, aldosterone increases, like every single thing, serotonin increases parathyroid, so it seemed like that was, I don't know, the final common path of stress. Is that how you look at it? Uh, yeah, yeah. The, uh, antortensin system is very close to it, but I think that's the right way of seeing it. But the reverse is also true, isn't it? The parathyroid hormone stimulates the production of all of these other mitigators as well. Uh, yeah, yeah, because it creates the degenerative alarm condition, and the short-term recuperative stress hormones all exacerbate the long-range degenerative processes. And last question about this, I'm pretty, I don't know if I caught this ever, the parathyroid hormone is stimulating the production of lactic acid from the bone specifically, is that right? Well, that's its functional, most known action, but it can't help doing it everywhere in the body. And then to do that to other tissues, it just has to be in the blood, is that right? Yeah. Awesome. What increases cellular uptake of parathyroid hormone? And conversely, what inhibits it? Is there a mechanism that can do one or the other? One or the other what? Cellular uptake of parathyroid hormone. In other words, is there a way to make the cell more resistant to parathyroid hormone? I know the medicine talks about receptors, but as you said, the cell is the entire receptor. What makes the cell resistant to parathyroid hormone? Nothing that I know of. Wow. So really, the only way to protect is limit its synthesis. Yeah, and vitamin D and calcium and magnesium are the things that are best known to do that. But at the same time, reducing endotension and serotonin and aldosterone, for example. Is there a specific parathyroid hormone receptor that medicine claims is the main mechanism through which that hormone works? I'm not familiar with it. There may be steroids that compete with it, but I guess the receptor hasn't been found yet. Or at least medicine is not interested in looking at it, because they think parathyroid hormone is the greatest thing since sliced bread. It's given to osteoporotic people to increase their bone growth. Yeah, Ray, I stole a reference. I forgot what article you had posted this in, but apparently parathyroid hormone is harder to suppress as you get older or sicker. And it was a DOMI paper, A-D-A-M-I, relationship between serum parathyroid hormone, vitamin D sufficiency, age, and calcium intake. I think it does increase with age. One of the interesting things that they don't like to talk about either is that the bone with aging and osteoporosis forms lots of aromatase. It becomes a powerful source of estrogen at the same time that it's degenerating. I think that's one of the interesting things that they don't like to talk about either is that And that would be ameliorated by what just decreasing the activity of the parathyroid or or no, this is a functional aspect of the bone that's not going to not going to change or or how do you reverse that? Yeah, getting your calcium and vitamin D and magnesium high enough that you turn off your parathyroid hormone. That's necessarily going to reduce the the local stress and. All of these signals that increase aromatase. Amazing might take a five minute break here. We have Ray Pete on the phone, Georgie Dinkoff, my partner, our user. We're talking about Ray Pete's newsletter right now. The newsletter is available by email now. It's twenty eight dollars, US, which can be paid through PayPal. And Ray Pete's newsletter, Pete's with an S newsletter at gmail.com. And Ray is sending those out right now. You can also email Ray Pete's newsletter to purchase Ray's books. I frequently come in contact with people that have no idea that you've written any books. And so I would strongly recommend people get a hold of these. They're basically collectors items. And then, Ray, why don't we talk about Progeste from Kinogen? And how does progesterone relate to parathyroidoma? It strengthens your bones and turns off... aromatase and if once you recognize that stressed bones produce estrogen but by their local aromatase then you see one of the reasons that progesterone is going to strengthen the bones because it knocks out, it inhibits aromatase and knocks out the estrogen. receptors. So in addition to good nutrition and calcium and vitamin D like progesterone, thyroid, vitamin K would be good things for osteoporosis? Yeah, everything good helps your bones. I have a question, in one of the newsletters you said that serotonin antagonists are highly anabolic for the bone, and I've seen a number of different studies come out with the. Various drugs, one of them on densitron, which is prescribed for nausea, but it's really a serotonin antagonist. And it seems that these agents directly, somehow directly work on the osteoclasts and osteoblasts without necessarily affecting parathyroid hormones. So it seems like serotonin has a direct effect on bone health that is, while overlapping with parathyroid hormone, there is an independent component of it too. Would you agree? Yeah, I think. Everything really is overlapping, but the receptor idea is just a way of trying to introduce order kind of artificially. Amazing. Thanks for that email, Catherine, to purchase Progesterone. Each bottle contains 3,400 milligrams of progesterone. It lasts a very long time, unless you use it topically, which I'm going through bottles every month. Another question on Progesterone. In one of your articles you mentioned that the high enough concentrations of progesterone can actually make the so-called estrogen receptor protein completely disintegrate, and I've seen many studies confirming that, and other substances such as caffeine apparently have the same effect. Does progesterone have the same sort of disintegrating effect on aromatase 2, or is it simply inhibiting its effects? I think it's just... blocking the promotion. For example, one of the powerful promoters of aromatase is Prastaglandin E. And the enzyme cyclooxygenase that makes Prastaglandin is activated under almost exactly the same circumstances. that activate aromatase and so the there's almost always a prostaglandin e present pushing for the formation of estrogen and the progesterone is known to in multiple overlapping ways to block the formation of prostaglandin e by creating destructive metabolites of it, blocking its formation and probably several parallel mechanisms that prevent the activation opposing cortisol's activating effect on aromatase. What do you think is the main mechanism? behind the synthesis of the actual aromatase protein? Is it simply under the body detects the metabolic rate is low or there are tissue and organ needs, you know, massive amounts of repair and that's what triggers genomically the synthesis of more aromatase or is there another mechanism behind it like radiation, heavy metals, things like that? Yeah, all of those things overlap for more than 50 years you radiation, hypoxia, vitamin E deficiency, progesterone deficiency, all of these have been known to activate the formation of more aromatase. And that's a, you have to then look at what each one of these things is doing, each one of those factors, radiation, hypoxia, and so on, is also activating many other parts of the cell, which lead to activation of aromatase. So it's like a holistic switch mechanism in which everything gathers up a summation of forces to either turn aromatase on or off. Does the entry of steroids into the cell depend on the steroid structure and the status, the lipophilic or hydrophilic status of the cell? For example, cortisol and estrogen, much more hydrophilic than things like progninolone or progesterone. So it's like a holistic switch mechanism. So if the cell is composed of fully saturated fats and is highly lipophilic, would that decrease the amount of hydrophilic steroids such as glucocorticoids and estrogen and aldosterone from entering inside the cell? Yeah, because at the same time it's keeping the energy state of the cell up which maintains the hydrophobic condition. The stabilizing of the hydrophobicity is also the stabilizing of the energy level and that suppresses all of the things that would call for raising the amount of estrogen or cortisol in the blood. So very, very well energized. lipophilic cell would be resistant to estrogen, even though it may be expressing the estrogen receptor at a normal level. So it may look like an estrogen sensitive cell, but estrogen can't really do much because it cannot get inside. Yeah, and it's probably keeping the estrogen receptors on the verge of disintegration to keep the hydrophobicity high. Do you think that may account for some studies that show that if you drastically increase the intake of saturated fat in the diet, it shows an increase of the amount of estradiol in the urine and sometimes in the blood as well? Would that be simply because the body is excreting all of this estradiol that cannot be used because the cells simply are impervious to it? I think so, a group of. I think it's generally led by Pasqualini has identified the processes of increasing estrogen in the cell or decreasing it and in about 10 different ways, progesterone's effect is to get estrogen. Out of the cell and inactivated made water soluble so that it travels through the blood quickly and is excreted and so the deficiency of progesterone will leave your cells highly activated by estrogen, for example in the uterus or breast tissue that is deficient. In progesterone, it's internally, it begins making its own estrogen so it doesn't depend on the ovaries or adrenals to, you know, they used to cut those out to prevent or cure breast cancer, but if you take out the ovaries and adrenals, you're also taking out progesterone and that activates the process of forming estrogen locally, starting with the uterus and breasts, but eventually going to every tissue that has been studied. Since the main method of deactivating estrogen is the glucuronidation process, and glucuronic acid production depends on glucose availability, would you say that increased... Insulfation, yes. Would you say that the presence of sufficient amount of glucose in the diet, of carbohydrates in the diet, is vital for the proper excretion and deactivation of estrogen? Yeah, I think so. The glucuronic acid is related to the vitamin C producing system and that... requires the normal flow of carbohydrate through the system. Great stuff. Before we move on, Ray, was there any other part of your newsletter that we should touch on before we move on? Nothing occurs to me. Okay, great. I have a question about lipophosphine. What is the mechanism through which lipophosphine inhibits... the electron transport chain? Does it bind to one of the complexes directly such as cytochrome c oxidase or does it simply impede the flow of electrons by its accumulation and and I guess repellent forces, electric repellent forces? My basic idea is that it's consuming the oxygen and the electrons that should be available to the mitochondria. And it's directly turning them into hydrogen peroxide and superoxide and water. But in order for that process to happen means that basically the accumulation of reactive oxygen species needs to occur, which suggests that a block of oxide phosphoration is already happening, right? Yeah, but it's like an amplifier once the process... starts, you're making more heme oxygenase, releasing more iron, getting a more reduced environment that makes the iron more toxic, consuming oxygen, lowering oxygen tension, accelerating the process. Once a person in old age reaches a point further, visibly......developing massive accumulation of dark pigment, it is extremely quick that they will go on to die. I was going to move on, Georgie. Stop me though if you have another question. No? No, I don't. Right, we were talking before this, and I joked, and I said, how are things? in the apocalypse in Oregon, and you said things are halfway through, and so, you know, instead of just going through the news and talking about all the bad things that are happening, of course, we can't do that. But like, can you summarize what's going on? Like, is this the capitalist class winning and then making it like a winning over the working class? Or like, what, how can people think about what's going on in a reasonable way? Because I mean, it's extremely confusing what's happening, I feel like. The ruling class knows very well how to herd people, scare them with something, get a lemming conformist trend going, and then keep them scared and inform them that everyone is going to do it, and you'll be a freak if you don't. Go along with them. And so I think they're even inflating the number of people who are really getting the vaccines. The propaganda has reached a point, I think, that it is triggering the irritation, self-defense reflects, in more and more people who are... as they start communicating, finding ways around the censorship that frightens the ruling class more and so they panic and get more absurd in the lies they're putting out through the media. Well, that like people with two vaccines becoming suddenly unvaxxed because they don't have a third one, I mean, should shake anybody to their core that this is insane. And of course, I mean, that's if I were to hypothesize, given the things I've seen, that's just to normalize constant vaccination. And that's part of the agenda for whatever reason. Yeah, three. Vaccines in a year and that's not counting the the influence and and shingles and chicken pox and all of the other vaccines they they haven't revised anything so it says now adults are going to need multiple many. Annual vaccinations. Even though the the information has been coming out for several years that the influenza vaccine for example makes you much more likely several times more likely than the unvaccinated to develop a respiratory pneumonia like problem. So there was a huge campaign. The previous year 2018 into 2019 to get Italians vaccinated with the influenza and according to everything that's known that would multiply several fold their risk of developing some other respiratory disease. Very likely it was a factor in the high mortality in Italy that they had been so obedient in getting their influenza vaccine. Given the amount of things you've read like that was probably a lot of people have talked about this that it would come to Kind of some kind of technocratic medical. Um nightmare situation There's a movie called v for vendetta, which was fairly recent which was exactly about that I haven't seen for years Ray did did I mean you've read a lot of illiches stuff was that's something he was chronically talking about Uh, oh, yeah, uh, um He saw education and medicine as the two basic evils of our society that were destroying humanity. What about technology? The Unabomber thought technology is at the core, is the actual direct agent. Do you agree with that? Of the destruction? Uh, I'm, I'm well, yeah, the way technology is used in indoctrination, the existence of the technical knowledge itself needn't be harm harmful, but they create this ideology of the digital view of consciousness, for example, that's separate from a technical understanding. If Norbert Wiener had been followed, there wouldn't have been this digitized reality quantization of everything as part of the philosophical reductionism. That reality is discrete instead of continuous? Yeah. Ray, by the second vaccine, third vaccine, and impending fourth vaccine, would there be something a person could measure on a lab test? Like would their aldosterone be like through the roof or something with inducing that spike protein? Would there be something they could identify? Impending spike protein, I'm not sure. Like if somebody was skeptical that these vaccines were harmful, could they get a blood test for something that would demonstrate like that their physiology was completely out of whack? Oh, yeah, I think the antitension would be pretty high. That's an accurate blood test? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Interesting. I've never, I've never had a measure. What do you, I don't know if you've seen the news, but China is embarking on a massive vaccination campaign to vaccinate 1.1 billion people by October 1st. What do you think is behind that? Is China also under control of the, or partial at least, of the powers that be? Or do they have another motive, afraid maybe that the, you know, if this virus narrative falls apart? Maybe CIA or who knows what, who knows who else will release another virus, and that one won't be as benign. Yeah, I think China keeps in mind the history of germ warfare of the United States. And that's probably part of their thinking. But they also collaborated with the United States in that Wuhan Institute of Virology on this gain of function research. So is that a case of keep your friends close, your enemies closer? That China just wanted to get an idea of what the Americans are thinking of unleashing? Or do you think China is on board with this whole globalization plan? I think it's a fact in China. I think the president, Xi intervened and......sort of cut down the Fauci faction. Oh, I see. So that may be behind his announcement that he's going to redistribute the wealth, make China more equitable? I guess, yeah. I was going to move on to questions. Georgi, stop me if you have any other. So before this, Ray, I gathered a bunch of questions from people that watch this show. So I thought we would run through them and then let you go. Guys give this episode a like sincerely appreciate it. We have an amazing listenership that hangs out every Friday. So guys, thank you so much. Georgie. Thank you, Ray. Thank you So my number my first question here was hopefully like a clarification of Georgie and I were talking about collecting the urine and Each leader of being about a thousand calories, but I think I might Georgie might have said it correctly and I might have goofed it But can you just explain that that test that at-home test for collecting urine? And how to quantify how many calories you're burning real fast? No, I don't know how it would be used for counting calories. Didn't you mention that if you discard the morning urine, then you collect the urine the rest of the day, couldn't you do some kind of math and then figure out how many calories you're burning? If you measure your water, total water intake, and urine. Then you know how much water you're evaporating. And that goes up as you burn calories. So you have to know the water balance. So you basically perspire about a liter of water for every thousand calories burned, right? Yeah. My apologies to Georgie because I butchered that and I said you were wrong last time. So my apologies, Georgie. Thanks for clarifying that, Ray. Speaking of something else you can clarify, I have a quote from you in 2012 and it says, I have known, this is the relevant part, when it's taken to small doses, 50 micrograms of T3 will usually normalize any hypothyroid metabolism. And I actually send that quote to a lot of people and I just wanted to like bring it back up since it's nine years old and see if you still felt similarly about that kind of upper cap of 50 micrograms of T3. That's just the equivalent of the old standard two grains of armor. It's partly just an arbitrary number because it varies so much with individuals. Roughly 25 micrograms of T3 sums up about the same as one grain of armor. And since the average replacement dose used to be two grains of armor, that's where that 50 micrograms came from. And if somebody was taking 50 micrograms, the people that you know who have done that, do they take 10 micrograms five times per day with food, or do you split up even smaller? Either way, but for sure split up so it comes in gradually. Good. Stop me at any time, Georgie. OK, so another question from a listener here, and they said, I'd like to hear from him about some of the reasons that he is so upbeat about Mexico, the ones that you mentioned he talked about on the call that you were on with him. In fact, I'd like a whole show about Mexico, he says. So I mentioned on a livestream saying that we were on a call that I didn't set up by some other people. And and you were very positive about Mexico. And so I think that's on a lot of people's minds right now. Of, hey, I got to get out of the US or I got to get out of somewhere else. And I mentioned that you were had a very positive view of Mexico. If you want to reiterate any of that, I think people would enjoy it. The objective evidence is that I guess it was about 20 years ago, Cuauhtémoc Cardenas really won the popular vote, but lost the election by fraud. And the fact that. In actual votes, as well as electoral success, AMLO had national support, the fact that the great bulk of the population supports those two individuals shows a lot about the quality of the country, very, very different from European American consciousness. Do you think there's any truth to the claims that there was election fraud in the last election, in the presidential election in the U.S.? I mean, if this can happen in Mexico, why couldn't it happen here, considering the sophistication of the three-letter agencies? Yeah, the use of digital voting machines operated through computers. It's the perfect way to hide the fraud to some extent. Black Box voting, when it was pointing out fraud by the Republicans, was a very popular website. I think they're still in operation, but no one wants to investigate. Fraud by the Democrats. Comparatively, you know, do you think the the court system has been completely compromised or this compromised to the point where even if evidence is unearthed, it will simply go nowhere. Yeah, I think the courts are well, well packed with state-supporting uh no matter which party it doesn't really matter that much which fascist party you're keeping in power uh ray before i read off more questions is there anything you want to say about afghanistan and is there anything you want to say about the fda uh so-called fda approval of the the vaccines oh uh the i i think i there was a possible positive interpretation for biden wanting to do what trump wanted to do get get the army out of some of the wars and i i think the today's bombing probably was the factions that uh can't afford to have uh any decrease in uh war expending expenditure uh the trillions that have gone through the military uh industry in iraq syria and afghanistan they don't want to see the tap turned off to their endless money supply do you think biden's decision to withdraw was uh was there anything good behind it according to you or do you think it was more more along the lines of a political move because midterm elections are coming he wants to please the war where republic uh money can be spent at other on other things you know public really doesn't want any more wars wars right now yeah i think that interpretation of natural positive action by biden is reasonable but uh the this action doesn't want to stop the war uh will kill lots of people to try to get the the reoccupation going great stuff thanks for that okay here's another one uh ray has previously mentioned that his favorite animals are ants are there any animals that ray considers to be evil or malevolent such as mosquitoes or hyenas i i don't think so it's just what they interpret as food it doesn't isn't compatible with our well-being i noticed someone who asked the question i think had the name sandwich yeah yeah it's a matter of perspective the mosquito and hyena see lunch when they smell a person it's just in conflict with human preferences you have a good memory for remembering that what semi related on that note on that note then do you think this then let's say hunting for food not for not for fun not for pleasure hunting for foodies and that is is is not an immoral activity for a human yeah if there's actually a reason to hunt for food if they really need food. It's like a hyena, you can't say that they're having evil thoughts just because they have a different idea of what lunch is. That's exactly the context I was asking out. I mean, if a person is hungry... and if, let's say, food supply becomes a problem or it becomes too compromised, right, and all you have is a gun and you're in the wilderness, then I guess it's a matter of perspective. Yes, it's a living creature you're destroying, but really, you're not doing it for fun. You're doing it because you saw food. Semi-related, but Ray, do you have any of your favorite examples of mutual aid in the animal kingdom? There are so many of them. People are like impervious to that idea that nature isn't anything but terrible and harsh and cruel, and so that's why I feel like just getting your thoughts on it is useful. You can see a lot of videos on the internet of animals expressing grief and gratitude and... mutual support and so on. Well, I watched one and it must have been a tiger or something and a bird had fallen into a tar pit and the tiger like went over to it, grabbed onto its wing and like swung it out of the tar pit. It was pretty good. I have several other examples. I mean there's several videos on YouTube where you can see how a herd of buffaloes saves an antelope that a lion has basically latched on. And then the buffalos will go in and kick the lion. Usually the lion leaves when he sees a herd of buffalos, but if he doesn't, then he'll get kicked out. There are several videos of lions actually saving a newborn antelope from a hyena and playing with it and not really treating it as food and just letting it be. And there are actually several videos also of humans saving animals in trouble and some of those animals are not, what should I call them, harmless at all. They're videos of a person releasing a grizzly bear from a trap, a very large Canadian gray wolf from a trap, a bobcat, and I think even like a mountain lion. Typically, if you get that close to these animals... under normal circumstances, you will probably get attacked, but it was amazing that these animals were like basically just sitting there quietly, allowing the human to free them up, and in some cases after that they refused to leave. They just kept following the human around as if they somehow became friends. Yeah, actually animals show gratitude and friendship. Have you seen this in birds? In one of your books you mentioned that birds are apparently really good at trying to get people's attention and form cooperative relationships. Yeah, and you probably remember the story I told about the ant. I put out an ant that was drowning in honey and its head was exposed. An ant came along and... thought it had found a drop of honey, but it ran around to see how big it was and it saw the head sticking out and jumped back in shock and then discussed the situation for for a while. Very agitated communications. And then it went around to the side and sat down and started eating. And another ant came along, did exactly the same thing, jumped back in shock. Except this time, the communication was very short and it went around and started eating honey. And I didn't stay there to see if more ants came along and did the same. But when I came back an hour later, the drop of honey and the ants were all gone. Do you think ants communicate strictly to chemical messengers or do you think they can do electromagnetic things too? They were obviously doing some kind of sign and touch language. The first one, they would discuss it a while and the arrived ant would run around and they would talk about it some more. It ran around two or three times, describing how big the drop was before it started eating. So these stories about a horse whisperer or a wolf whisperer or whatnot, they actually have basis in reality. Apparently people can learn the language of animals and communicate with them. Yeah, I'm convinced that ants, for example, have lived around people enough that they've learned... English or whatever language they're around. A couple of times when ants were bothering a roommate who was going to get some ant poison, I just firmly and clearly said, if you don't leave. That person is going to poison you. And they just disappeared. You're saying we could experience a Coco the Ant like situation with sign language. One day we could figure out the ants language with their arms and things like that? I think so. It's obviously a very efficient language that can take a new, totally novel situation like that and size up. The nature of the problem and so the second and arriving got the idea in just a brief conversation. I interrupted you. Did the ants that were bothering your friend, did they just quickly go away or what happened? Yep, it just disappeared. Great stuff. You know, I have one more question. You call it like mushrooms and inspiration based on their structure and what they're able to do. What are so special about ants? Why are they so amazing to you? At a relatively low body temperature, they can be so quick withered. As they get very cold, then they slow down, but they think and calculate. Just with amazing efficiency, basically as smart as anyone. Do you think them living in those burrows, basically, just like the naked mole rat, they're exposed to high concentrations of carbon dioxide? And that may explain some of their... Okay. Have you seen the study showing that ants don't age? Basically, they die either from a predator or a trauma, basically, something squashes them, but they don't really age. That would be the outcome of living in a high CO2 environment, I think. I'll find a substitute or a replacement. That's excellent. That's funny because that's like what the dating community would say is like quickly find somebody new. Why do you say that? It works. So do you think the concept of a soulmate is basically just a fairy tale? In other words, there could be many soulmates? Yeah. That's really funny. Okay, there's a philosopher, you may have heard the expression, I'm blanking on the name, was a European philosopher. He said that, and pardon if this is too stereotypical, he said that love is the illusion that one woman is more special than another. I guess this can be extended to both sexes. In other words, you can fall in love many many times and you'll be just as good if it's with the right person. Yeah. Great stuff. Okay, here's another one. Can you ask Dr. Pete to expand on his views of ontology? He has talked about Minong previously. Thanks. Yeah. The ontologists have usually been confused, getting mental processes confused with thinking about the nature of. Okay.  reality itself and the idea of continuity and of interaction constantly. Everything is impressing its aspects on everything else. And so the nature of being is constantly changing as the world evolves. The substance itself is changing in the ontological sense, the same way a cell changes with experience. And that's related to William James' radical empiricism, right? Same thing? Right. Right. Speaking of him, did you know that he had, like, he had a concept about stress called a reservoirs of power? Did you ever, do you ever read about that? Nope. Like, I was reading a book and it was talking about Hans Selye and then it mentioned canon and it talked about, like, early concepts of stress. And then it mentioned William James. And I was like, what the heck? I thought he was a philosophical person. And then I found a few mentions of something called reservoirs of power. And he was basically talking about. How, if you use basically talking about what I interpreted to be like an extreme stress state, bringing on like another level of accomplishment, but it was just interesting because he's clearly talking about. Okay, here's the actual quote William James suggested that every person there are reservoirs of power, which are not ordinarily called upon, but which are nevertheless ready to to bring forth streams of energy only only if the occasion presents itself. I don't know. You're familiar with those earlier concepts of stress. Were there any that's any that were interesting to you? No, not especially. Okay, we'll jump to another question here. Thank you guys so much for hanging out with us for Friday. Ray, I won't keep you too long. I'll let you go very, very soon. Thank you so much for hanging out. Thank you to Georgie for making this possible. I have a question about the reserves of power. They're well documented cases where mothers are basically capable of lifting cars just to save a child that's being pinned underneath. And under normal circumstances, they're not known to come anywhere near close to that level of being able to muster up so much power. So, I mean, do you have an idea what may be behind this mechanism? What could be causing the southern and clearly unnatural or at least not naturally present, not normally present amount of muscle contraction force that these women can muster up? Is it some kind of a steroid reaction? A very good coordination of the chemistry and the nervous innervation I think strengthens the fascia muscles in a physical way that makes the parts stronger to meet the needs of the moment. So what would the, I mean clearly since these women are not being able to muster up those powers on demand, it's only under extreme circumstances, is there any way this can be trained in a person? In other words to be, to sort of like improve the condition, the physiology to get closer to that clearly higher potential that we have? Yeah, I think it involves things like getting up your pregnant alone basic level. And DHEA that strengthens the substance at all levels. Great stuff, Ray. I'll only ask you two more questions and let you go. So this one's from Christian wondering if he could recommend a safe and pro thyroid way of oil painting. Maybe what substances and habits to avoid one painting. Also, maybe if he could talk about his own personal painting practice. I try not to use my fingers too much, but I'm always tempted to smear the paint with my fingers. That's not a good idea generally, and to have a very good ventilation is the other essential thing. Great stuff, and then we'll kind of end it here. Could Ray describe what a typical day of eating looks like for him? Oh, very random in a sense because I got tired of doing it one way and so innovate constantly. The common themes though are milk, orange juice, eggs, cheeses, occasional cheese tacos. Various soups and so on. And orange juice seems to be one of the most difficult things to find. Are you using orange juice concentrate right now or do you have a good source of oranges? No, bottled pasteurized orange juice. Oh, interesting. And do you have a brand? Because I know a lot of people, I get that question all the time and I haven't been in the U.S. for a long time and I'm not sure what's good or not. No, it was just trial and error. I don't remember the brand. Also, we'll do one more advertisement here. The newsletter repeats newsletter that we were talking about earlier is twenty eight dollars. You can send that to Ray Pete's newsletter at Gmail dot com. You can order Ray's books by sending that email, name of the book, and they'll send a digital copy to you. And then you can order Progeste from Kinogen email. Catherine is very nice and send it out very quickly in a package that provides protection for while the progesterone is traveling. And. That is that is it any final words here ray that you know the world the world is going crazy and think things are hard to deal with right now is there any piece of advice you could give to anybody to to maintain. Keep keep learning about the virus it's currently the the most important thing about the the reasons. For the great dangers of the vaccines. And then Georgie. You you as well as last question really. Do you think that the parts that be a winning? I mean, I can see going both ways because this whole this whole technocratic nightmare that they're trying to impose depends on turning the entire population depending on the state, but the United States is not really the Empire is not really in a in a financial position right now to sort of endlessly pay people to do nothing and become dependent simply because it's it's in such a massive amounts of debt. This fiat currency thing in the printing. They cannot go on forever because it will essentially destroy the dollar as the reserve currency and then the dream of the neural order people is going to go down the drain too. Yeah, the people getting conscious is the essential thing and it has to advance at a faster rate to prevent the death of the whole system. Great stuff Georgia dinkov. Thank you so much repeat. It's an honor Thank you so much for hanging out and continuously hanging out with us, and you know talking. It's so fun guys Thank you so much. Thank you so much for listening guys. Have an amazing weekend And guys, thank you. Have a safe weekend. I'll talk to you guys soon. Okay. Bye everybody Music Thank you very much.