 From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, welcome to hour two of our little show here. Dr. Ray Pete has a Ph.D. in biology from the University of Oregon. He specialized in physiology. He's taught at schools like University of Oregon, Urbana College, Montana State University, National College of Naturopathic Medicine, Universidad de Adad in Batacruz and some other places in Mexico that I can't pronounce. He started his work with progesterone and related hormones at 68. He did papers on those. All kinds of pretty geeky things when it comes to the body, and he's been studying these things since that for a long time, has quite a following around the world. His website is raypete.com, and we're honored to have him back because we have lots of good questions for him. Well, good morning, Dr. Pete. Good morning. How are things out there on the left coast? It's been sunny the last couple of days. Really? We just talked to Dave Stetzer that had a couple feet of global warming on the ground there in Wisconsin. Dr. Pete, how do you spend your days generally up there with you? Usually reading. Reading. How do you know when you read all this stuff? How do you know what's kind of like bright or medium or fake news? I mean, how do you know? When I first went to college, I was a literature English major for several years. I specialized in English literature mostly. Doing that, you learn how to really interpret who a person is just from fairly short passages of their writing. You can tell pretty much what their philosophy is, what their mind is like just from the way they make a few sentences. Starting almost 100 years ago, science and medical journals started imposing a way of writing that creates the impression that there's no person present. And despite that stylized, impersonal, so-called objective way of writing, you can detect, at some level, you can detect the mind of the person behind those pseudo-objective sentences. And I think of science and medical writing as political propaganda writing. It's the same as reading a newspaper. You know it's going to be ninety percent lies, but if you figure out the motives, why they chose that subject to write on, and the motives will explain the way they use their terms, the assumptions they make, and the conclusions, the way they draw conclusions from the evidence. The people have begun to discern just fake news in general when it comes to politics or science or whatever. Much better than twenty or thirty years ago, but still most people are gullible. Like what they're saying about Venezuela. It has the biggest... oil and gold deposits in the world and it's democracy we're interested in. I guess after you study things for a long time, like I've done with the financial world for 25 years, you just kind of, like you said, you kind of smell it, right? You just kind of intuit that the people have a particular position one way or another. Yeah, dieticians and doctors writing about statins or other billion dollar drugs. Sure, yeah. What are some of the subjects that you get, like, you know? Just top-of-the-line interest in these days, Dr. Pete, parts of organs or parts of the body or particular illnesses. Do you see some things keep showing up in number one, two, three, like, over the last year or so that kind of spark for you? Always hair loss and obesity are the most common, but there's an awful lot of cancer recently. Cancer is displacing heart disease in the people I've been talking to and two or three days ago I heard from a veteran who had had 20 vaccinations and then had immune suppression therapy and then developed cancer. I think the things we're being exposed to are......creating cancer in young people. It isn't being publicized because people generally think about an age-related cancer, but just in the last 10 years there's been a big surge in cancer in the 20s and 30s and 40s. Air, food and water, the basics, are getting toxic? Yeah, the combination of... lots of PUFA in the diet, lots of radiation. Tongue cancer is practically an epidemic compared to what it used to be. Tongue cancer, tonsil cancer, eye cancer, thyroid and brain cancer from a combination of cell phones around the head and dental x-rays. Wow, tongue cancer is the source of that, do we know? I think oral x-rays are probably the best explanation for that. Oh, they over x-ray when you go in and, you mean, yeah. Yeah, they talk about the new sensitive instruments that don't make as much radiation per exposure, but then they give you panoramic scenery x-rays that... make dozens of exposures, even though each one is low exposure, but some of them is much more than people used to get. Yeah, Cinemascope and whatever, they really... Yeah, they really go for it now. Oh, me darn. If you have a question for Ray P, we have lots of emails already. patrickatoneradionetwork.com Several... Emails after your last show, and folks were wondering why you were suggesting possibly the synthetic hormone replacement rather than the pig natrathroid. Natrathroid? Is that how you say it? Oh, I don't know about that particular... brand, but there are now lots of desiccated thyroid-planned products available. But a hundred years ago, and up until the 90s, the Armour Company was the main producer of desiccated thyroid, and there were a couple other companies that made extremely good products. But they were testing every batch from the... They took it from a beef and pork both, and you could get the type you wanted or mixture. But every batch was standardized in potency by testing it on mice. In the 90s that stopped, and then one of the major producers started extracting and selling cyrocalcitonin from the powder. So... You can't tell whether the powder is the entire gland the way it used to be a hundred years ago when all of the great research was being done. Now you're likely to get a fractionated extract from the thyroid gland. And since they don't standardize it on mice, in Mexico I got some......thyroid glands from the slaughterhouse and found that they had almost no thyroid activity. Something had been in the animal feed apparently that ruined their thyroid. So if you aren't standardizing the product, the only way you can tell what you're getting is to get a good batch of a particular product and then test it on yourself. And with the natural product, it takes about two months of adjusting the dose to really know how much you should be taking. Where with the two or three good synthetic products, they are adjusted to a standard. For example, I've been using CNO Plus. Which was based on Armour Thyroid's composition. I've been using this one product for about 30 years and the potency hasn't noticeably changed. And so there's no issues with the fact that it's synthetic as far as you can tell? Yeah, it was just designed by the Armour Thyroid company itself to......imitates their own Armour Thyroid USP. And now the synthetic is continuing that same composition. And new companies that try to make T3 or T4 or the combination, if they don't test it on some animal, those materials are very hard to keep functional in a pill. And so... with those, if you don't use the well-known products such as Cyrolar or Xenon Plus, then it's a matter of testing those over a period of a few weeks. I see. Very interesting. So you're willing, as a researcher, and when you talk to people, if there's any downside at all and are you pretty sure there's not with the downside of the synthetic to do that because you're more... you're more sure you're getting exactly what you need or want? Yeah, I hear almost every day one or two stories of bad results with a so-called glandular. There are lots of things that can go wrong with the glandular. For example, they'll put additives in it or desiccated liver. Along with the desiccated gland and chemicals either in the liver or the other additives can alter the effect of the thyroid. Yeah, I guess if you really thought about it deeply without getting too dark, if the animals are being fed antibiotics or growth hormones or even GMO grain or something, that could affect the thyroid as well, I guess. Oh yeah, if they give them fattening diets with lots of pufa, that blocks the thyroid. The desiccated thyroid, she has a 60-grain, and it gives you so much T4 and so much T3. I had the numbers here that she wrote. Yeah, they usually say 9 and 38, but as far as I can tell, those numbers are something that the FDA told them to put on the label. Oh good, yeah, it's not necessarily what it is. That's my impression because unless you standardize it on an animal, if you just do the tests on the actual pill, the desiccated thyroid, a chemist several years ago took a product from Thailand and saw on the label it said 18 and 76. Micrograms of the substances he tested for those and found zero in the product and zero yeah, and I explained that That's normal the plan should contain zero t3 and zero t4 But when we eat it we digest it and produce the digestive process creates those hormones when you eat the gland. So he hydrolyzed the pills with acid, then tested it, and they did have exactly what they claimed. But it's simply false, an FDA fiction, to put on a glandular product that it contains T3 and T4. The FDA really is that ignorant. They don't know what they're doing. Yeah, well, surprise, surprise, Dr. Pete. You know what, I want to do a quick break, and I'm going to call you back on a different line. I'm getting some clicks and clunks. I'm not sure... Have you heard them? You're sounding fuzzy. Yeah, I think it's this line. I'm hopefully that on a new line it's going to be clear. So if you would hang up, I'm going to call you back directly. You'll hear a commercial playing when you pick up. And let's, I think there's a problem with the line I'm on, okay? Okay. All right, let's do that. One of the fun and easy things we do with this Perlsium product is brush our teeth with it. But as we look deeper into this product, taking it internally is really kind of magical. Calcium metabolism basically affects the whole metabolism and also your whole energetic systems. Literally, the calcium is the power of... house for our energy. And it also carries the energy everywhere. So whatever we do, you know, either thinking or doing any work, it's all, you know, calcium is a carrier to put, you know, get the energy over there. And recently, we had a Professor Paul... on our show on the electromagnetic fields. And he explained very clearly how these things were interfering with the proper calcium getting into the cells. That's fascinating. I completely agree with his research because everything is actually a field, you know, vibrational field. Even our body is a field. And also pearl can really alter the whole vibrational field. Because it has this crystalline structure. And this crystalline structure carries the most positive energy and also information and matter. And so when it gets into the body, it can change the completely vibrational field. So it can heal us at a very deep level. Well Dr. Wooten Shu, we love the sound of that. Heal us at a deep level. Why don't you give it a try? Click on the front page of OneRadioNetwork.com. You'll see the ad, Green Container, Pearl Sim, OneRadioNetwork.com. Previously with cardiologist Dr. Joel Kahn, 35 years experience in cardiology. On your commercial break you hit a hot button because I'm a giant fan of infrared sauna and the cardiac benefits. Tell us about why you like these saunas for the heart. What does it do? In Japan, it's a traditional therapy of heart disease to even sick heart patients. To sit for 15 or 20 minutes of the infrared sauna, then lie down and rest and hydrate for about half an hour. They call it WAON, W-A-O-N, it means soothing heat. And they've done research studies like 30 of them in humans, anti-aging your arteries and improves the strength of your heart and may actually prolong survival in sick heart patients. Anybody can just again go to the internet, read about infrared sauna heart disease, or put my name there because I've written many articles about it. Now there's data coming out of Sweden and Finland and then because they've published some amazing data that the number of times a week you're in a sauna, the number of minutes each time, you can just track out how long you're going to live. So, very powerful therapy by being in, my favorite is an infrared sauna. Well, I don't know about you, but if the heart muscles and the arteries are happy, things are good. Very important. We promote the relax, far infrared sauna, special price. Not in print, $9.95 delivered Continental US. Get your heart and keep your heart and arteries in fine shape by using the Relax, Far Infrared Sauna. Email me for the special price patrick at one radionetwork.com. Okay, it is the 19th of February. Dr. Peter, are you there? Yes, that ad was very interesting in relation to thyroid because raising your body temperature is one of the basic essential things that the thyroid hormone does. Broda Barnes, who was a pioneer in the prevention of heart disease, judged his thyroid dose for his patients on the basis of their temperature. If they woke up very far from 98 degrees and didn't rise to 98.6 by the afternoon, the thyroid hormone would not be able to adjust their thyroid dose until that's the way their temperature varied during the day. And in his long practice of 30 years or so, he didn't have any one of his patients die from heart disease. Solve the Riddle of Heart Attacks was the name of his book. And even if you just warm up your body with a hot bath regularly, that does many of the things that the thyroid hormone does. And the way the thyroid function is currently being estimated by the medical professional around the world, the last 20 years or so, on the basis of the thyroid stimulating hormone, a pituitary hormone in the blood, that rises when we're deficient in the actual thyroid function. When you're correcting the body temperature and keeping your oxygen consumption up, your TSH goes very low. A healthy population was found to have no thyroid cancer if their TSH was 0.4 or below, in effect below the so-called normal range. And the TSH itself, the thyroid-stimulating hormone, rises when your thyroid is malfunctioning and the TSH promotes inflammation, promotes hypertension, the degenerative processes associated with low thyroid function. Many of them are directly caused by the TSH, yet doctors won't prescribe thyroid until you. Get extremely high TSH and maybe that's the connection on as you said on the Infrared sauna and the heart and the thyroid and the temperature and all that. That's very interesting. Yeah Yeah, so so I'm wondering so if folks have a high TSH higher than what and you're your way down there How do we know if if we want to give the the body a T4 or T3? I really Most people, most men will get along with either of them. In the 1940s when synthetic thyroid came out, the product was tested on male medical students, men in their early 20s, and they found that T4 thyroxine worked just like natural armor thyroid, and that was the basis for prescribing it. But... Starting in the late 40s, people created the idea that only 5% of the American population needed a thyroid supplement because they were testing the blood, not the temperature. And they found that the iodine in the blood was deficient only in 5% for 20 years. Years that went on until they discovered that iodine in the blood has no correlation with thyroid function. It isn't a thyroid hormone they were measuring. That's amazing. They created this horrible myth. And then as the good test, such as radioimmunoassay for TSH, as that came out, they stretched the normal range to fit the myth. That only 5% needed a thyroid supplement. Interesting. So, in general, if folks wanted to get their body temperature up, they could either do the T4-T3 combo, or just a little bit of the T3, and experiment with it and get their body temperature up? Yeah, women... That myth was created on the basis of young men, but women of all ages, especially when their estrogen is high, are... sometimes extremely insensitive to the T4 supplement. And it can actually lower their thyroid function by suppressing the TSH and turning off the conversion of T4 to T3. The first thing that got me interested 40 years ago was knowing of a patient at the University of Oregon Medical School who was brought in. Comatose, because her doctors had started her on 100 micrograms of thyroxin and she got worse. They raised it in steps up to 400 micrograms of thyroxin and she went into a coma. And in the hospital, someone knew about the function of the liver and T3, gave her T3, immediately she came out of the coma and was normal. But that shows that... The female liver has to convert T4 to T3 like the male liver, but estrogen blocks that process. So that's why women have about from 5 to 10 times the incidence of thyroid deficiency as men. Oh, because of the estrogen in the body. We had a gentleman on the show, a Dr. MD type, and he was suggesting that if you... Did a fraction of free t3 and the bottom number would be the reverse t3 But that that now that number wants to be about 20 to 1 Does that sound reasonable to you? I Think it's probably ideal, but people get along with a much lower much a lower ratio and the actual ratio varies from tissue to tissue, but if you only have the blood to look at, it's good to have a fairly high ratio of t3 to reverse t3. And just doing a little bit every few hours, which is kind of clunky, but why doesn't it work if you would just take, like the T3 is what, 25 micrograms, which is very small, but that's too much to take at one time? Talk about... Yeah, the liver is the main source naturally, and so if we produce, say 400 micrograms of T4 at maximum... T3 or T4? Of T4, our liver will convert maybe a fourth of that to T3, so at the very maximum we're getting 100 micrograms per day, or a maximum of 4 micrograms per hour, but on average we're about half that for normal functioning, and so the normal hourly production should be around 2 micrograms, and if you take 25 at once... the liver experiences that tenfold excess and shuts down. I experimented myself taking 25 micrograms only in the morning, and after 2 weeks I noticed in the mirror that my thyroid gland, there was a depression on each side of my Adam's apple where the gland should be, and it wasn't there. But the real problem was that, at sunset, my heart began stopping. How good! Ten times per minute, it would stop for a few seconds, and there would be a few regular beats and then a pause of two or three beats, and I found that when my heart was having those episodes. If I took 10 micrograms of T3 and chewed it up, within about 15 seconds, the perfect rhythm would be back, and I realized that I had activated my liver enzymes to the point that they were throwing off the T3 and creating a profound deficiency in just 12 hours from the single pill. But if one was going to use a T3, would they have to do this every couple hours, like for a long time? Pretty time-consuming, isn't it? Yeah, a friend of mine and his wife were on the train going to Chicago, and he had a heart attack and was rushed to the hospital, and they started taking his blood enzymes and showing that part of his heart was dying and releasing enzymes, and they were graphing it showing the steady rise, and they said that would keep up for four days if he survived in the world. Gradually correct itself. But on the first day, his wife happened to have some T3, and started giving him one microgram per hour with a glass of orange juice. And that afternoon, his enzymes started normalizing downhill. The doctors said that never happened, and that he had to stay in the hospital for four days, but he went home and was fine. Interesting. But so I guess, could you powder the T3 and then maybe mix it with liquid and you dose it out that way? Oh, yeah, getting it finely divided. Yeah, how would you do that? Some people just nibble, take a little crumb off the side of a tablet. If you have sharp teeth. Or you could powder and just take a little dose of the powder and maybe get 25 micrograms over the course of the day. Yeah, it doesn't have to be exact just so you don't have those gigantic surges of 10 or 20 micrograms. Is there any chance that by doing that that you could help the thyroid along to get better on its own? I've seen several people who were doing silly things that suppressed their thyroid. One doctor, endocrinologist, told her that her thyroid must be dead because she had no thyroid. No thyroid function and she started taking thyroid and within a week her whole pituitary had recovered and there are published cases where people do recover their thyroid function just by taking a thyroid supplement but it's fairly rare because it's usually not just a short term stress that has suppressed the gland but a chronic stress. Chronic, yes, so it could take a while. So again, before we leave the thyroid, I don't want to get bogged down, we have so many different places I'd like to go this morning. The difference in taking T3, which you can get, or the T4-T3, you know, the common combination for the body is what, the difference? The T4 is only active by conversion to T3, which activates the oxidative heat producing process. But the T4, even though it isn't metabolically active, it does act in the pituitary, which can do the conversion locally. So it can be therapeutic just by suppressing your TSH. But you have to take into account the heat production and calorie burning of the T3. And the T4 takes a long time to......equilibrate in the body from any dose that you're taking. It has a half-life in the body of about two weeks, where the T3 has a 12-hour or one-day half-life. So you can get up to normal quickly with T3, but it takes several weeks to find what your stable response to T4 is going to be. Okay. And one thing I should mention, I got an email yesterday reminding me that deep venous thrombosis and other clotting problems are very, very easily, usually resolved by a thyroid supplement. When your thyroid is low, your clotting is up. Hyperthyroid people have... difficulty forming clots, but low-thyroid people will have transient ischemic attacks and strokes and thrombosis legs and lungs and whatnot. So another reason to have that thyroid happy. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So other than the... I keep saying I'm going to leave, but there's so many people with the thyroid thing, it's like epidemic. And other than the supplementation... Before we leave thyroid, things we can do food-wise or lifestyle to boost the thyroid to get more back in balance. Any ideas there? The PUFA are the main... polyunsaturated fats are the main things that interfere with thyroid production, transport and response. But excess protein because of two or three amino acids. Tryptophan, cysteine, and methionine are all the thyroid suppressing amino acids. If you eat too much protein in relation to carbohydrate, that in itself is going to interfere with thyroid function. Very interesting. I've actually heard thyroid people that want to have you eat some animal protein in the morning to boost your thyroid. So hmm. Yeah, you need orange juice first to get your thyroid going. Orange juice is better for your thyroid than animal protein? Oh, yeah. Oh, good. And you don't have to kill a cow. That's great. Okay, let's move on here. Here's a lady that really enjoyed the first show. Hope Dr. Pete comes back. I'm doing some liver, some eggs, some bone broth, zero poofas, sourdough bread, ripe fruits, and she's giving her whole kind of diet. I feel much better. My temperatures are higher. I sleep better. My question is this. I've never had allergies or food intolerances and none of these foods are new to me. However, I get horrible painful acne behind my ears and chin, below my ears, even if I back off the liver. Any idea how I could find out what's causing this? When I first supplemented DHEA, I got acne. One of its most important functions is to increase your conversion of cholesterol to progesterone and DHEA. The surge of new youth-related hormones can give a 50-year-old person teenage acne if your nutrients aren't all in balance. Some shellfish, some liver, fibrous foods, it takes a good balance of nutrients and too much protein relative to carbohydrate can dip your blood sugar and cause a stress reaction that activates the production of cortisol and if your thyroid is good. The adrenals will make a surge of DHEA and that could make the skin oily and susceptible to acne. So maybe she's just kind of getting a little younger in a way. Yeah, acne is a sign that the skin is rejuvenating its oil and moisture. So she's doing good, right? She's just, you know, getting younger. Yeah, it increases your nutrient requirement. The thyroid stimulating the conversion of cholesterol to progesterone, for example, greatly increases the consumption of vitamin A, and the vitamin A deficiency makes your immune system fail, can make bacteria able to grow in your skin. So, and that's why the vitamin A is the whole, one of the whole reasons why the pro cod liver fish oil people take this, right? Yeah. Because they say you need the vitamin A for your eyes and everything. Yeah, and it comes with vitamin D in fish oil. Yeah, which you're not a fan of. That's like one of the worst poofers, right? The fish, fish oil. Yeah. Have you ever seen people do well with the... cod liver or fish oil over a long period of time? Yeah, young people do very well. When the thyroid is up, it can consume, destroy, excrete the fish oil fats. But when you're under stress, the fish oil then tends to accumulate, break down and produce inflammation and immune suppressive products. Interesting. It oxidizes. Almost instantly into immune suppressors if your liver is a little slow. So in a perfect world, if one wanted to do cod liver oil, you wouldn't get all yellow fatted up or lipofuscin? No, for a young person. For a young person, yeah. Here's John, he's in Australia. Could you ask Dr. Pete, if it's not too late, about the cell membrane, and if it is not made of calcium and... phospholipids, to share what he believes. Does he believe the cell membrane is a polarized water? Wow, that's quite a question. Actually, I think it should be referred to as the cell surface. An interface between two phases, and every interface between ionically different substances. will have an electric double layer, no matter what the substances are. If you examine it on the electron microscope level, you'll see a polarization of whatever is there by this electric double layer. Each substance has its own affinity for electrons. And when you put different substances together... they compete for the electrons and you get that microscopic reversal, double layer electronic. And that will polarize proteins or fats or ions, whatever is there, and create the microscopic appearance of a double layer, bi-layer, which if there's a lot of fat around, it'll be a lipid bi-layer. But that's a side effect. is not an organ. In the 1960s, disregarding the physics of the situation, there was a great movement to explain everything in terms of genes. The genetic theory of cancer was imposed by the government in the 1960s and that came along with the membrane mania. Biologists just went crazy in the 1960s creating new journals specializing in membranes. By the early 1970s, that craze had died away. People like Gilbert Ling and Harold Hillman showed that basically they were looking at artifacts. You can make a picture of a membrane, but there's no barrier membrane. That's what they believed in and imposed in school, that there's an electronic barrier membrane. Gilbert Lang long ago showed that with labeled isotopes, you can show that sodium moves in and out freely. There's absolutely no barrier to sodium, which was the whole philosophical basis for believing in a barrier membrane. So what do we take away from this as far as... learning about our health, it was a little geeky what you said, it was interesting, but what good does this information do for us taking care of our body? One of the selling points for fish oil was that PUFA are essential fatty acids and they're essential for making prostaglandins and for making membranes and our brains, they say, are 60% fish oil. And so if you don't eat your essential PUFA, you won't have proper brains because their brains are so PUFA loaded. But at birth, when you look at a newborn human or animal baby, their brains are defined as essential fatty acid deficient. We have the mead acids in the newborn brain which are the defining sign of a proof of deficiency. So if you want a newborn fresh, energetic, able-to-learn brain, you don't want it loaded with fish oil. That's something that accumulates all during adulthood and by the age of 50 is increasing the risk of nerve diseases. The polyunsaturated fatty acids we call PUFAs, right? Which accumulate in the brain. On the idea of electrons, we've been told that toxic substances steals, maybe, does it steal an electron or it's a negative electron thing and that causes the cells to oxidize? Is that close? That is one of the ideas, but behind that... If you cut off the oxygen supply, surprisingly, you get a surge of oxidative damage. If you run an animal at high rate with thyroid or anything else that increases the mitochondrial oxygen consumption, their free radical production drops drastically. There's a good paper called Uncoupled and Surviving. In which they show that the faster the mitochondria run, consuming oxygen, the less oxidative damage there is and the longer the animal lives. The saturation index is another. The cancer-free animals and long-lived animals have a high saturation ratio to unsaturated fats. So, how do we use that information to increase the... our life span and also of that of our animals? Avoiding the pufa. Avoiding the pufas again, wow. Yeah, with farmed salmon they found that they had better health, better endurance if they fed them some saturated fats rather than the fish oils. So, even the cold water fish do better without their pufa. So, for the animals we stick with the saturated fats just like for ourselves. Yeah, just like ourselves. So, does vitamin C and other things like kind of put this electron back on? Yeah, ascorbic acid existing inside cells where it is active and protective. It's an oxidant. It's called dehydroascorbate. The dehydroascorbate to ascorbic acid ratio is at least 8 to 1 inside the cell. Highly oxidizing, so the so-called antioxidant. It does prevent oxidative damage, but it does it because it's pro-oxidative. The things in fruits and vegetables that are considered antioxidants work because inside the cell, they are extremely... pro-oxidative and if you imagine a cell which is suddenly suffocated and can't use its oxygen, electrons accumulate because they aren't being turned into water with the oxygen. The electrons accumulate and any iron atom, which had been in the inert F3......positive, it catches the electron and is turned into the Fe2-positive. The reduced iron becomes a catalyst for destructive random oxidation. So an excess of electrons is what creates destructive cell-killing oxidation by way of iron. Does regular ascorbic acid... get into the cells to put that... Yeah, it's taken in and immediately oxidized to dehydroascorbate. And that's a good thing. Yeah, and cancer cells, if you look at the ascorbic acid content, it is high relative to the dehydroascorbate. It has become reduced, and it's no longer working because the cancer has an excess of electrons. So do you and do you recommend other people take daily doses of extra vitamin C? No, because milk and meat are very good sources. I experimented stopping all the known sources such as fruits of vitamin C and ate mostly milk and meat and eggs. And several weeks later, I... kept testing my urine vitamin C output. And it was still up in around 3000 milligrams per day, even though I was just eating milk and meat. Oh, so yeah, cause you're a milk guy, right? Yeah, you're a milk guy. Yeah. Interesting. Here's an... Oh, yeah. Do you have any knowledge or opinions of this very famous brand, this lipospheric vitamin C, if it works any... Better getting in the cells than the ascorbic acid? Is that the palmitate? Well, let's see, I'm not sure it's palmitate, it's lipospheric, live on labs, I'm not sure what's in there. Years ago, the sausage makers developed a palmitic ester of vitamin C, and that works for preserving fats, so it was good in industry and... They started selling it as a supplement, but I don't think it's any better than real vitamin C. You don't think it does much of anything? It's just a marketing thing, you think? I think so. Well, they do good at that, that marketing thing, boy. They're good at that. Dr. Pete, this is from Glenn. He is, let's see where Glenn is, in Colorado. I know you're a big fan of cholesterol and keeping levels higher than is recommended by doctors. My question is, is it safe to raise cholesterol levels by supplementing with dried cholesterol powder? And he's got another question and we'll do this one first. There has been research with that, for example, in autism. And I don't know what the source of their cholesterol was, but it did improve the autistic kids. But years ago, someone analyzed the supposedly chemically pure cholesterol that was being used in experiments feeding animals. And they found that it was pretty highly oxidized, making it toxic. So, even at one percent. Oxidized cholesterol, I wouldn't risk taking a supplement unless you knew that it was very close to absolute unoxidized. So the liver makes most of the cholesterol, is that correct? Yeah, and when you eat more cholesterol, you shut off your own liver's production to a great extent. So, by eating a bunch of cholesterol like eggs or, I don't know, meat. It doesn't really raise that number that we like to keep up there? No, 40 years ago someone tested patients and healthy people and found that very sick people you could raise their cholesterol with eggs, but healthy people at 22 eggs a day they still hadn't raised their serum cholesterol. So, we know with a lot of studies, a recent one of Sweden... that especially folks 60, 70, 80 up there, they have a much better mortality rate with higher levels, you know, high levels up there to 25. And avoiding dementia is very important. Yeah, and avoiding dementia. So, how do people keep that number up there if the food doesn't do it? I'm kind of confused. The thyroid and sugar... are very important, keeping inflammation down in the intestine. Eating raw vegetables feeds bacteria, and the bacteria create endotoxin, which poisons the intestine and liver, so keeping it from making adequate cholesterol. So, a diet rich in non-irritating, easily absorbed foods. Milk and orange juice are the simplest for keeping the energy of the liver up and the inflammation down. Barry, so the raw foods, you're a fan of cooking your vegetables? Yeah, overcooking actually. The reason raw vegetables lower your cholesterol way down to half of what it should be or less is that they're feeding bacteria which are poisoning. Your liver so it can't make the normal amount. That's that's interesting feeding bacteria That's causing your liver not to make the cholesterol. But I I mean all the raw food people they talk about how the raw Vegetables are they're feeding with good enzymes. And this is what we need is living human beings Yeah, the liver left alone and and giving nourishment Knows how much cholesterol to make and how much to turn into bile salts and hormones and so on. So, supporting the liver, it'll do the right thing, which is to keep your cholesterol in the range of 160 to 200. Yeah, at least. And how do we support our liver? Just in general? Yeah, avoiding raw vegetables is very important. And getting adequate calcium, sugar, sodium. All of the essential nutrients. All the nutrients. Sugar. In the form of fruits, right? Apples and oranges. Yeah, one of the anti-sugar guys, Yudkin, I think it was, wrote a book explaining that it wasn't saturated fat. It was sugar that raised your cholesterol. And that created the anti-sugar craze that it would cause heart disease. Raising your cholesterol. Your liver's ability to make it is just what we need and what causes the cholesterol to rise up to 300 milligrams per cent, for example, is blocking the thyroid function because the thyroid function is using that protective cholesterol to make progesterone, DHEA, testosterone and so on. Back to the power and the critical nature of this. Organ, the thyroid, and don't you find it curious that there is literally an epidemic of thyroid dysfunction in our culture? Just in Broder Barnes' time, before synthroid came on the market, he was showing that about a third of the population benefited greatly and would avoid premature heart disease and cancer in his career. None of his patients died of heart attacks. By doing what? By supplementing thyroid. Did he use a desiccated at that time? Yeah, Armour was the only thing he ever used. Which has a T4 and T3, correct? Yeah, it was the standardized pork and beef thyroid, standardized to have approximately... three and a half to one ratio of T4 to T3. A listener wants to know the names of the the brands that I might get if I wanted to move to a synthetic thyroid as Dr. Peet recommends. What are those names? Cyrolar was the standard for about 50 years. I don't know if they're even making it now. I don't know if they're even making it. From Mexico is the one that I've been using for 30 years. Sino. Oh, that's from that Mexican pharmacy you can get. Sino Plus. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Uh-huh. And you've been using that for 30 years. Mm-hmm. When the thyroid production went from the armor company to Revlon, the cosmetics company. Oh, good. I stopped using it. And when was that? Around 1991 or 2, I think. My. Goodness, my goodness. Dr. Pete, stay right there. Okay? Really having fun. Boy, we have lots of action going on. Lots of emails, telephone calls. We're going to do what we can here to take care of you. Uh, it's really fun. Dr. And having Dr. Ray peed on Patrick Timpone, one radio network.com. Uh, Dr. Pete's website is Ray Pete.com. You can also sign up. He's got a very, uh, interesting. newsletter and it's very affordable. He can tell you how much it's practically nothing and get that newsletter and stay up to date. Incredible amount of articles on his website and as you can tell he's well researched and sounds pretty credible to me. Raypeat.com. Dr. Pete's a fan of milk and we're kind of a fan of colostrum. I know that Dr. Thomas Cowan, a heart is not a pump guy, he's a big colostrum fan and he says that it can help to heal and seal up the gut lining and other people have said that including Daniel Bytelis. Bytelis makes a great colostrum, if you'd like to try some colostrum, it's the real deal. You open that little puppy up and it smells, I can remember the first time I opened it up and being an Italian Catholic, we had a lot of kids in my family, six brothers and sisters, seven total, I did the math, six and one, there was seven, and I remember the first time I opened the colostrum up years ago, it actually had that smell, that little flay, that smell of breast milk and believe me, I smelled a lot of breast milk around my house because I was the only one who changed diapers and held the baby and stuff, more than all my brothers and sisters, I don't know what that was about, but anyway, it's a nice product, click on it, front page, One Radio Network and get yourself some colostrum if you'd like from Daniel Bytelis Sirthrival. Previously with Wayne Blakely, we were talking about the Living Streams probiotics. That's why when we do your Bifido in the mouth, we do it for the Yttrium because Bifido doesn't... The Bifido 2 product I have, you put it in your ear, it's bypassing the gastrointestinal tract and it goes through the lymph system, the drainage system, goes right into the small intestinal tract, it bypasses the gastrointestinal tract, that's the reason I developed it. Now for 50 years, they've been developing a probiotic capsule that you could take, it'll open up in that area so the bacteria start growing, there's two problems with that. Number one, it doesn't work. And number two, they put apathetic bifidose in there. They're weak and they're dying anyway, you know. What do you mean it doesn't work, number one? That's a bad word. It doesn't work. It doesn't work. That capsule doesn't work. So that's the reason I developed a liquid product to bypass the gut. Well, why doesn't the low pH just kill the liquid guys too? Because we put it in the ear, bypasses the gas. Oh, okay. That's the bifido too, right? Okay. That's the bifido too. You can use any of my products to do the same thing. They'll go right through, bypass the upper track and go right into the lower track, and that's where the... Your immune system kicks in down there. So we could use any of the LivingStreams in our ear? Any of them. It's all safe. How are we doing? Totally fine. Cool. That is pretty cool. That's where a good portion of the immune system is in the small intestines. Check them out in our store, LivingStreams products, all of them on OneRadioNetwork.com. Previously with Andrew Gauss, I asked him why would someone want to buy coins from his company. If you don't know coins, you better know your coin dealer. And you know, you shouldn't buy coins from someone who isn't a well-known registered dealer. So if they're an NGC dealer, they're registered with NGC. If they're a PCGS dealer, they're registered with PCGS. Ask questions. Don't just, oh yeah, here's 10 grand or 50 grand or 150 grand. I just want to buy coins, you know, let me know what I'm getting. And no, that's not how an intelligent investor does it. And we do not let you do that. So if you're not willing to learn about the coins that you're buying, maybe you should find another coin firm. Don't call this one. Because we're going to insist that you know why and how a coin is rare. And once you know that, then I think you can take that knowledge into the marketplace and make intelligent investment decisions. Aha! What a concept! Intelligent investment decisions. I've known Andrew for 25 years. He's the real deal. His company SDL 800-468-2646. Give him a call if you're interested. 800-468-2646. Well, I don't know what's going on. We're going to do a special......remix, archive show of Andrew Goss' Tomorrow as we've been doing since Andrew......passed on, went on his cosmic vacation, I guess, about a month ago. God love him, we really miss him. And so we're going to have a special show for you tomorrow, so come by. We're going to go over some of the things that are moving in the markets as well......from all the places that we've done research. I don't know what's going on, but I'll try to figure it out. Gold is up 10 bucks this morning. Silver is up 15 cents. The dollar is down. Stock market's up a little bit. So we'll visit with Andrew Goss and have a special remix, archive show. People are enjoying them because I put together two or three shows......so it's really jammed with... it's always fun. I've been listening to some of these old shows. What a wealth of information he is. By the way, with Andrew Goss, we have 11 years of shows in our archives, so you can get yourself a real PhD in economics by listening to this because he really fills you in. So that'll be tomorrow, the Real World of Money special archives with Andrew Goss, speaking of a PhD, Dr. Ray Pete has been around a while doing that. Dr. Pete, you do a newsletter. Tell folks about that, how they can get that. It's sent out every other month. So 12 issues or 2 years. The email subscription is $28. Oh, 28 bucks. Even I can afford that, a talk show host. Good for you. That's a great price. So every other month for 28 bucks for 2 years at RayPete.com. I see. Okay, boy, we can't get away from thyroid, but these are the questions. Is it possible to become thyroid toxic from T4-T3 supplementation? I.e. can the body store too much T4 and cause problems? If it stores too much T4, generally that interferes with the conversion to T3. The real problem with taking too much T4 is the risk of turning off your brain metabolism. There is, if you take the combination, taking it too big a dose too fast can make you short of breath, can give you a fast heartbeat, and in, I think it was 1933, the JAMA magazine published a story about a doctor who had heard about Brodibarnes and preventing heart attacks with thyroid supplements. He had a patient who had just recently had a heart attack, and this doctor hadn't read really what Brodibarnes was doing, so he gave him a full-size dose of thyroid, increasing his metabolic rate. With his heart in a failing injured state, and the guy died almost immediately. And so that went out as a warning not to use thyroid. It would kill you with a heart attack. In fact, when it's used properly, it's the best single way to prevent heart attacks. But, for example, a 40-year-old woman who had a heart attack, had a fairly large fibroid blocking her fallopian tubes, and she wanted to get pregnant. And I explained how estrogen excess drives the growth of those tumors, and a thyroid excess will give you an estrogen deficiency. And so she took Armour Thyroid, several grains a day, gradually worked up so that her resting... heart rate was 110. Her doctor said she was going to die from having a chronic 110 heart rate. And in each month, the tumor shrank. And after four or five months, it had become small enough that she became pregnant, had a perfect pregnancy. But that was a deliberate overdose. Women who are having... Menorrhagia, hemorrhaging from prolonged excessive menstrual bleeding, that generally is hypothyroid, and they can temporarily increase their thyroid, not only to the point of normalizing menstruation, they can, within a few days of using an excess of T3, they can... create an estrogen deficiency and turn off menstruation altogether. So it can be dangerous if you take too much too fast, but it's a matter of watching for the signs, increasing it in very small... Little by little. That's Gina's question. She's in San Diego. I purchased some of the T3 from the website I got off your website, Patrick in Mexico. There you go. How long would Dr. Pete expect that I would have to take the T3 at these small doses throughout the day to raise my body temperature? It's currently about 97 almost all the time. It varies with body weight and age and what you ate previously. But if you have a sign such as elevated liver enzymes showing a sluggish liver, you're going to notice the small doses, one microgram at a time, within a few days you can usually see normalization of the liver function. But if you carefully watch your waking temperature and pulse rate, since the T3 acts within seconds when it's absorbed, it's instant acting. And acts as a catalyst to increase oxygen consumption. That's the main virtue of T3, that with these very tiny doses, you can see exactly what you're doing. So you can avoid overdosing, where people, if they start with T4 and hope to get their temperature up, they see no results in the first three or four days. But meanwhile... It's accumulating in the body, taking a certain dose every day. It builds up in your body for at least two weeks. So if you load up because you see no results for three or four days, then it turns out when you do get up to the normal temperature, you're going to overshoot it and you'll be not happy. So are folks generally starting really low, maybe 30 milligrams on the T4, you know, the desiccated and working up? That was Broder Barnes' typical starting dose. I've seen two people over the last 40 years for whom that was too much, their heart raced, and they had to go back to even 15 micrograms for these oversensitive people can make their heart hurt or go too fast. They have to supplement both sugar and magnesium. The thyroid lets your cells retain magnesium and potassium. And so eating well and maybe supplementing magnesium helps you adjust to the thyroid because your muscles will take away the necessary magnesium and cause your heart vessels... to constrict and cause heart pain. I hope you're doing... So folks taking the T3 little by little, even one or two micrograms an hour, should they see their pulse rate move up a little bit? Yeah. Why not? Yeah. Very, very slightly. One or two beats per day is fine. One or two beats per day, did you say? Yeah. Or per minute per day? Per minute per day. And would they use that as a gauge if they're taking too much or not enough or just the temperature or both? If you get up to the ideal pulse rate and temperature in four or five hours, then even with T3, you're going to overshoot because it has a 12 to 24 hour accumulating half-life. So you don't want to get there the first day. Even with T3, it's best to work up gradually. Go real slow. So what happens if you would be on T3 and things are going good, your temperature's up, your pulse is up a little bit, and then you would just stop? Then what would happen? You'd get the hypothyroid like I did when I was taking... You'd just go back? Yeah. When I suppressed my thyroid so that I had these......depressions in my throat, I stopped it entirely, and the next morning my throat was smooth again. And several people who have overdosed on thyroid to the point of having a collapsed appearance of their throat......just in one day, it pops right back. So, is there any danger of being on T3 for a couple months and then quitting and seeing if it's going to help you just work without it? Oh, uh... Yeah, usually two or three weeks you'll see whether it's correcting your own thyroid. Oh, so you could get off it and see if it's going to hold? Yeah. Oh, that's interesting. Here's an email from, I'm not sure, Amy. Does Dr. Pete have any opinion about using pure pine gum spirits of turpentine? Oh, um... Yeah, I always used turpentine as my painting medium, and some people are allergic to it, but I always felt that it was safe and beneficial to have some of the fumes around, and it was very common to use it for a poultice in a... inflammatory condition, or even to take a drop of it on a sugar cube, for example. I think that traditionally seem to have some benefits, and I think that the risk of allergy is present, but usually exaggerated. Here's a lady that says, I've never really had a menstrual cycle and began in ninth grade. I've also despised... upset me. Well, very. I simply decided in my mind not to ever have one. Not sure if this was part of it, but maybe a dozen times I've even had, and I'm 56, I've bloated belly and probably some hormone problems. What do you think about this? So she just decided she didn't want to have a period and she stopped having them, I guess. Yeah, the cycles are governed. By the brain, which governs the pituitary, which stimulates the ovaries. And so, attitude, stress, is the main thing that turns off the cycles. It isn't good for an overstressed or undernourished person to get pregnant, and so the body regulates to avoid pregnancy when your brain doesn't want it. Do you think when women go through menopause and they stop menstruating, that's one of the reasons why they generally live longer than us guys? Yeah, the iron absorption really begins at menopause because what fails and stops the period is the production of progesterone primarily, and the myth that menopause is a deficiency of......of estrogen is purely a medical birth control industry fabrication. What happens is a failure of progesterone around the age of 45 or 50 or 55, and all of the tissues of the body make estrogen, and in the absence of progesterone, they make more estrogen. And the... progesterone is needed to cause the cells to release estrogen and excrete it. So when you don't have progesterone, you necessarily are going to have intracellular estrogen excess. Any stress will increase your estrogen production, but it won't necessarily show up in the bloodstream unless you have the progesterone, which... knocks out the enzymes that retain it in cells, and intracellular estrogen is active, for example, in breast cancer. There's a huge amount of estrogen being produced in the tumor. In uterine cancer, the same thing, the uterus becomes the source of the estrogen. In the 40s and 50s, they were taking out women's ovaries and pituitaries. To treat breast cancer, not knowing that the estrogen isn't coming primarily from the ovaries. In experiments with monkeys, someone actually measured the amount of estrogen coming out minute by minute from the ovaries, and the control, they measured the estrogen coming out of the arm vein, and they found that the arm was producing just as much estrogen as the ovaries. So a hysterectomy takes away your progesterone, but it leaves your arms and legs and all of your organs making estrogen. And so your estrogen exposed at beginning at menopause. And estrogen causes iron retention, and so in old age, women tend to catch up with men. The iron overload symptoms such as heart disease. Very interesting. Ray Pete, Patrick Timpone, RayPete.com. Stanley wants to know if bone broth is as healthy as it's claims to be. Not if it's made with marrow bones because of the fat and iron in the marrow, very high concentration of iron which interacts with the fat. So, the... healthy broth is made from the joints. The joint bones, yeah. Yeah, lots of cartilage and tendons, ligaments, and all of the connective tissues that are rich in gelatin. But not the marrow bones, that's interesting. I give my dog some marrow bones, grass-fed, and boy, she'll work and work and work to get all that marrow out of there. She's usually generally pretty smart about what she eats. Do you think she knows that she needs that, or? It's very tasty and nourishing in the short run, but if you do it over the years, you accumulate too much iron and broken down fat. Okay. Here's a telephone call. On the phone, who's this, please? Hi, I'm Patrick. This is Mike in Chattanooga. Mike, you're on the air with Ray Pete. Go ahead. Dr. Pete, my digestive tract is a real train wreck and it has a lot of inflammation. I see the chiropractor and he took an x-ray of my gut and he said he'd never seen that much inflammation in a man's gut. And so I'm real sensitive to foods and stuff. And when I juice beets, it really helps lower my blood pressure as a result of this train wreck digestive tract. My blood pressure wants to jump up a lot of times if I eat certain things. It will irritate it, you know, like something that's really fibrous, it seems to, and so I have to really watch what I eat. Do you know anything that can help reduce the inflammation in a gut when it's really off of, deep in it like that, you know? The main thing is to reduce the fermentable grains, nuts, vegetables, starches, and use foods that are easily, quickly digested and absorbed. Milk, meat, eggs, and sweet fruits such as oranges are quickly digested and so they don't support so much bacterial growth. There are some fibrous foods that are also antiseptic. Cooked bamboo shoots, well-cooked mushrooms, and raw carrots. Our antiseptic, antibiotic producers, as well as being good fiber. Right, and I've juiced a lot of carrots and beets together, and that nitric oxide will lower my blood pressure. If I don't do that, my blood pressure will be too high. But the carrot juice is very rich in carotene, and so if you do that chronically......it's going to accumulate in your tissues, make your palms turn orange, and suppress your thyroid and testosterone. Oh, that's not good. Right, and that was where I was going next, is because if I eat broccoli and cauliflower, you know, even if it's cooked......all of a sudden I'll break into this freezing. You know, I mean, I'm that cold. I mean, it's just like I am freezing......when I eat those vegetables, because they shut down the thyroid activity, don't they?...temporarily. That's true. Okay, my... Ray Peake said this, like, maybe ten years ago, and I've been watching it. I have to be real careful. I try to eat broccoli and cauliflower occasionally, but I have to really not eat much of it, because it will make you just freezing cold. And then I use that ag medio ha-gia yeah uh... I dine the good kind Patrick that you have and that will help warm me back up. Yeah, but Ray P, you said that the iodine really doesn't affect the thyroid like we have been told. Is that correct? Usually people eating foods from various regions will have at least as much iodine already. And if they use iodized salt, around the world there have been surveys that showed that people who add iodized salt to an already good diet will have an even higher level of iodine. Have an increased incidence of thyroid inflammation, thyroid gland inflammation, and thyroid cancer. Because, for example, a cow won't produce milk, a chicken won't produce eggs if they're seriously iodine deficient. So eggs and milk are guaranteed good sources of iodine. Okay, thanks for the call, Mike. We appreciate it. On a past show, this is Max Seas in Switzerland, Dr. Pete mentioned that Hashimoto's was not really an autoimmune condition caused by the immune system attacking its own thyroid tissue. Could he elaborate on the mechanisms and reasons why the body starts producing these antibodies against the thyroid? There were experiments years ago in which a piece of a cow's cartilage was implanted and the immune system recognized it as normal cow material, but then they twisted it, just mechanically gave it a sharp twist and implanted that and the cow's antibodies. recognized it as foreign material and began phagocytizing it, breaking it down. And the immune system recognizes damage to your own tissue and goes in to remove damaged tissue as part of a normal cleanup process. In the last 25 years, there have been two people who have been infected with the virus. Showing the fallacy of the usual idea of how the immune system works that derives from Paul Ehrlich. And they showed that Metchnikov shared the Nobel Prize with Ehrlich. Metchnikov was an embryologist who had a very different idea that the immune system helped maintain healthy structure of the organism. And these two recent......theorists, Jamie Cunliffe and Polly Matzinger, have what they call the danger or damage theory of the immune system. The immune system, if you have an infection, the damaged human tissue is what the immune system recognizes and goes in and as a byproduct of correcting our own healthy structure, removing the damage. They take out the cause of the damage just as a side effect. But if you damage a joint just by twisting it, your immune system recognizes it and goes in, invades it with white blood cells. If you damage your thyroid gland by taking too much iodine or too much PUFA that blocks its function, that is an intrinsic......structural damage of our tissue that the immune system recognizes as danger and damage and goes in to clean it up. Same in the brain. They've demonstrated that if you block the white blood cells and antibody production that are involved in encephalitis, that encephalitis kills the organism faster for blocking the immune reaction. So the immune system is doing what it's supposed to do in this classic autoimmune situation? Somewhere it's limited and failing to finish cleaning up the job, because usually it's an excess of estrogen interfering with the stabilizing hormones, DHEA and progesterone and pregnenolone, which stabilize the whole structure of the cell. So that the body recognizes it as good human material rather than random damaged material. So it's a matter of re-energizing the cell that will stop the autoimmune process. Re-energizing. Here's a question for you. Medical medium Anthony Williams, I've heard of him, claims that Hashimoto's immune response is really a body attacking a chronic Epstein-Barr virus hiding in the thyroid. What does Dr. P think of this theory? That is probably valid as one of the causes of the tissue damage, but the Epstein-Barr goes wild in a hypothyroid person. Because of the low energy, we activate things like herpes virus and Epstein-Barr when our cell energy is low. So it may be accurate, but there's a whole lot of other things going on, what you're saying. Yeah, the basic general thing is failure of energy. Failure of energy. Thyroid up energy and PUFA energy down. Ah, PUFA down. I consume 325 milligrams of aspirin, writes Mark, right before bed. 625 milligrams upon waking for joint pain. It helps a lot. How much vitamin K would you suggest I use? Do I need it daily or weekly? One milligram a day is adequate to keep your liver making the clotting agents, and one of the things the aspirin is doing is activating the thyroid function, activating mitochondrial oxidation. It revs up your thyroid function. So aspirin, like he's using it, is... A sensible approach? I think so. So aspirin's relatively safe. Yeah, you just, in the long run, you can suppress your clotting system. And so the thyroid, I did that myself, using a combination of penicillin and aspirin. I was going along feeling very good, but I wasn't eating. Vegetables or liver and I became vitamin K deficient and the tiniest little scratch I would drip blood for several minutes and I realized that I had to eat liver or take vitamin K if I was going to use a combination of penicillin and aspirin because penicillin stops the vitamin K production in the intestine. Interesting. George writes in people with kidney disease and ammonia overload....are being told to avoid potatoes because of excess potassium. Is there anything to this or is it just mainstream medical mythology? The latter. Medical mythology. A lot of that going on, right? Gosh, it's tough to keep up with this. Um, well, hold on a second. A lot of thyroid questions here. My wife, a woman 62, had a total hysterectomy, all female, ovaries removed. Can she live well without estrogen? She takes bioestrogen, progesterone, and thyroid. I know Ray is kind of anti-estrogen. Partly depends on weight. A skinny little person is fairly safe for not producing too much estrogen, but the plumper you are, the more risk you have of accumulating dangerous amounts of estrogen. I knew an endocrinologist who was giving his wife monthly progesterone. In her 60s, she looked very young, and he said she was still in her mid-60s. He was menstruating because he kept giving her the monthly progesterone, but her skin looked like a 30-year-old because of the protective effect of progesterone. What could cause hot flashes to start up again? After 10 years of not having any. Oh Hot flashes have been taking nature thyroid for several years Various things can increase your estrogen and nitric oxide production a change of flora in the intestine Oh, that's one of the benefits of a high fiber diet, but the natural antibiotics, some of the bacteriophage viruses that kill bacteria and a few of the antiseptic bacteria, bacillus subtilis, for example, can normalize or improve the intestinal fora so that we aren't producing huge amounts of nitric oxide. Estrogen, serotonin and nitric oxide are involved in the vascular changes that produce the hot plasters. Here's an email that has hypertrophic cardiopathy, heart muscle thickened on the left ventricle. My symptoms are mild palpitations, a little bit of lightheadedness sometimes, cardiologist doesn't have much to do to help me. Does Dr. Pete have any insights on this? Um. Yeah, I have a couple of newsletters a few years ago on the heart and progesterone and estrogens effect animal studies traditionally, they've blamed heart enlargement on the thyroid because if you take gigantic doses of thyroid keep your heart going 125 per minute That will enlarge your heart because it works harder but when they did this in rats and then gave them only a physiological supportive amount of T3 the fibrosis of the heart was actually reversed the fibrosis is a product of not enough oxygen, too much nitric oxide and estrogen and stress and by reducing the stress keeping the oxygen and carbon dioxide up, lactic acid down, if you had your blood tested you would probably see higher than average lactic acid as a result of low thyroid function. Lewis writes in, my resting pulse rate is about 65 and if I get up to 70 I feel kind of anxious and unsettled much like Patrick has talked about. I'm in the same way, I'm 60 all the time, boom, boom, boom. If I get to about 65, I can kind of feel it. So what do you suppose going on for Lewis and I? I mean, we should be just OK with 60, right? I mean, do you think that there could be some improvement for us with low pulses? Oh, yeah, temperature is very important. Some people can get their temperature up and still have a slow pulse. But the central thing to think about is having a... around a 98.6 temperature during most of the day. And that's the key, and then whatever your pulse wants to be to get it there, then that's fine. Yeah. Is what you're saying. If you have a very big heart, it can do enough circulation with fewer beats. Oh, I see. Of course. If you have a small heart, it has to beat faster. On average, I think people feel best. with an eighty five per minute resting. Really? Wow! Man, that seems like super charge to me on a bullet train. I can't imagine that, but who knows, you know, that's really interesting. Does Dr. P recommend supplementation with B12 to either meat eaters and non-meat eaters, and if yes, what type of Cabalamin B12 does he recommend? I generally don't recommend it because we can make it in our intestine and... in the last few years, I've seen many people with twice the normal amount of B12. And it turns out that they have overgrowth of bacteria in their intestine. The B12 isn't hurting them, but when it's so high without a supplement, that means that their bacteria are going wild. Oh, that's the bacteria in the small intestine, the classic SIBO thing we hear about? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And that is caused by... Slow digestion. When your thyroid is good, you should make exuberant amounts of stomach acid and quickly get the digestion going and then squirt out lots of enzymes from the pancreas. The germs just can't survive in that environment, so the small intestine should be absolutely sterile all the way down to the colon. Emily gets loose stool, she says, when she takes even just a little bit of the T3. What is that telling me? That usually the estrogen is very high, increasing the serotonin, which is what activates the peristalsis too much, causing the diarrhea. And so reducing inflammation, gradually nourishing the liver so that it can... regulate those hormones. Do you think it's reasonable to take like milk thistle and things like that to keep the liver happy and cleaner and stuff like that? Yeah, several of those natural plant substances can be anti-inflammatory. And for example, for mushroom poisoning, milk thistle is a lifesaver. But I knew one woman who was having chronic liver enzyme elevation and taking milk thistle for it. And when she stopped the large doses of milk thistle, her liver immediately returned to normal. So an excess of milk thistle can be irritating to the liver. Uh-huh. Does Dr. Pete ever recommend doing blood tests? Can we learn something from them, or are they just a snapshot in time? They can be useful. That's where lots of our information comes from, but I don't generally advise people to do it, because the doctors are going to misinterpret them anyway. Yeah, you really have to have a good interpreter to do that, huh? Is cancer, writes Leroy, is cancer caused by two......few or too many electrons? Yeah, the reductive stress where your vitamin C, instead of being in the oxidized form, becomes reductive. The excess electrons activate iron to make it a toxic reductant. Cancer, characteristically, has a great excess of reducing power. And so it's an electron excess condition. A couple more, then we'll let you go to work. What role does water play in regulating body temperature? Can hydration keep my fingers warmer in the winter? The hydration, in the sense of blood volume, does improve circulation, but that requires a balance of sodium. Calcium, magnesium, potassium, and that's regulated by hormones such as thyroid and progesterone to optimize the blood volume and that will usually take care of how much water you take in and put out by adjusting your thirst and kidney action, but the healthy person. With a good 2,500 calorie daily consumption, should be evaporating at least two liters of water just in their breath and from their skin. Wow. Yeah. One of our listeners said that on our first show we did with you long ago, you had about five, six, seven minutes that really explained the way to properly prepare grains, and we won't go into it now. So we're going to. We're going to dig that out and maybe make a file and let people listen to that, so there is a way. I don't even remember at all that we can work with grains to make them much more user-friendly for the body. Alkali cooking. Alkali cooking, that was it. Nix tamalization, the tamale tortilla masa arena method. And you explained that all on the original show, so yeah, we'll get people to be able to hear that so they can do that. Linda says, do coffee enemas deplete iron or is donating blood the only way to lower excess iron? Drinking quite a bit of coffee is helpful because it reduces... the absorption of iron from your food and the enemas would have some of that effect but I think just a regular having coffee with every iron-rich food is very protective. Here's a final one for you then we'll let you go. Can you explain the difference, writes Ben, between hydrogenated coconut oil and extra virgin coconut oil? Yeah, extra virgin oil has all of the aroma and good flavor but it also has two or three percent of PUFA left in it and it has some proteins which for some people are allergenic. The hydrogenated has been not only thoroughly deodorized so there's no taste. But it has been treated so there's no pufa left. So it's extremely... coconut oil itself is very stable against oxidation. But the hydrogenated form is essentially resistant. You just don't have the breakdown. There's no pufa there to break down. You think it's a better choice, hydrogenated? It's what I use. I've never really seen it, but I guess you can find it. Do they sell it in the health food stores? Not yet, but there are a few places on the internet. The first time I got it, it was a free sample from the company, but the shipping was $200. But what about all this, the negative stuff that was said years ago, about like partially hydrogenated this and that, and even Whole Foods took all that stuff out of their ingredients? Yeah, if you partially hydrogenate soy oil or corn oil, a tremendous amount of the intermediates, which are potentially toxic, but if you start with only 2 or 3 percent of the FUFA, then the process goes to completion. There are none of the intermediates left. Oh, so it's not partially, it's just hydrogenated, which is a different quality of the product. Yeah, for example, a Russian study, they knew that peanut oil in itself is toxic, but when they hydrogenated it and gave it to animals, it restored aged mitochondria to their youthful ability to oxidize. I'll be darned. Those Russians, they've got some pretty interesting research over there, don't they? They're really into longevity on a deep level, I guess. Yeah. That's why they drink a lot of vodka, that'll pickle you. Yeah. Well, Dr. P., what a joy having you here. We've covered a lot of territory, and I appreciate you being so generous with your time. Thanks so much. Okay, thank you. Okay, hope you had as good a time as we did. Thanks. Bye-bye. Dr. Ray Peet, raypeet.com. So I hope that's fun, and we'll put this on Facebook, and you can pass this on to everybody that you care about, and we'll put it on YouTube as well, and we'll get some more Ray Peet fans out there. I love you all very much. Thanks for being here. Appreciate your ongoing support of all of our products. That's how we make a living around here, and we're very grateful to be able to do it in our yoga pants, and do our show, and have our studio here in Dripping Springs, and so please consider some of our products if you want to get something for yourself. We got some good stuff, and we know the source to all of them. That's one of our trademarks, so thanks for that. We'll see you tomorrow. We're going to have a special remix archive show with Andrew Goss and the Real World of Money, and I love you all very much. May the blessings be. From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.