 Good morning. This is OneRadioNetwork.com. The telephone number is 888-663-6386. Email Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. We are listener supported. OneRadioNetwork. Well, good morning. Welcome to part two of our little show running just a few minutes behind. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com with Dr. Ray Peet. He's a PhD. And he's on the show with us on the third Monday of each month at around 10.30 central time. And he's been at this for, Doc, what now, 35 years you've got? Forty, forty-five. Forty, forty-five years. And you're, wow, wow. And you're feeling good? You're, did you say you're 83 revolutions around the sun? 83 revolutions around the sun. Huh. And Dr. Ray Peat drinks milk and has sugars. So, you know, you might want to listen and see, see how he does that. Dr. Peat, good morning. So I was just kind of asking you off the air for a second, but let's dig into this. Cause we just had a guest who was talking about the idea that these viruses, measles and herpes and all these things, we actually have, um, his conjecture is that we have these in, in our bodies already, uh, you know, the root canal people. Uh, that we've had on have, have proven through biology and peer reviewed studies that they open up these, these root canals doc, you know, these infected guys and they find things in there like, um, um, all kinds of things from herpes to, um, syphilis to, um, uh, all kinds of crazy stuff that's already in the body. Um, does, does any of that. You know, kind of balance with the, with your whole thing. And you've been at this a long time. Yeah. Have you heard of Peter Duesberg and the HIV critics? Yeah, a little bit. Tell folks who he is. I started graduate school in biology in 1968 and in, I think it was in 69, Tim and, and Baltimore published an article. Saying that they had evidence that DNA could be transcribed into RNA and RNA could, a virus could, according to the existence of that enzyme, there was a possibility for a virus to insert. It's from RNA to DNA. It could leave its trace, its genes in the nucleus, and at the time all of my molecular biology professors denied that that was possible because they had the dogma that genetic information goes only from DNA to RNA to protein. And so the idea that protein could be a virus or the RNA. Could be a integrated into the genes as a virus. RNA was not supposed to be translatable into DNA. But it turns out that we're full of retroviruses. Some people say a huge proportion of all of our genes consist of retroviruses. And during stress, we emit... these as possibly part of a curative system. Around just a little while after that, there was an acupuncturist lent me a pamphlet he had written by a North Korean claiming he had evidence of particles of nucleic acid circulating... in our lymph... well he said it looked like our lymphatic system but he said it was a completely separate circulatory system, a third circulatory system carrying these virus-like particles that were actually emitted by cells to repair cells in other parts of the body. That was... he wrote that around 1965, I think, and just in the last... oh, ten years or so, it's now recognized that we are full of these tiny particles carrying RNA and DNA and proteins emitted under stress. Aging and any sort of sickness or stress cause our cells to emit particles that circulate so that they can come out of a stress tissue, which it doesn't seem to be. Be carried in the blood to the bone marrow, for example, and change cells in the bone marrow so that they are able to repair the injured cell, a two-way communication of viral-like particles. And since our genome is fairly full of these viral-type particles, retroviruses, that's a... a very plausible idea that viruses could originate from stressed organisms. And we know that epidemics originate in famines and wars and conditions that are stressing organisms. And they don't necessarily have to travel only from, like, the green monkey theory of AIDS. Traveling to humans or the snake to monkey to cats and humans of the Chinese virus. 40 years ago there were two botanists researching plant viruses at Oregon State University. And they would use pumice powder on their fingers and rub the solutions of... plant viruses into the leaves of plants to create the viral disease they were studying. And within a short period of time, both of those researchers came down with the same kind of rare degenerative brain disease, which to me was very suggestive that a plant virus had invaded their system. And I stopped eating raw vegetables at that point. was saying a person needs to be wants to be kissed so the the lips will try to you know put more of these uh little um sensitive particles out there and you know and all that and and the herpes will actually come in and try to uh you know heal that up you know kind of thing and but if this is true and some of these things like come out of patrick that are already there you know they've been there forever and they're and they manifest for a healing process that I need to go through karmically spiritually I can't I can't pass those on to somebody else can I yeah a couple of publications in the last few years have found that within the body it's now known that they not only go to the bone marrow to change our immune system cells they can actually go to the gonads and enter our germ cells so they can be passed on. So it's exactly the situation that Darwin proposed, with his gemules coming from all of the body parts going into the gonads, modifying them for the inherent acquired characteristics. But in this recent research, they have just demonstrated that... the microvesicles do enter germ cells among other cells. And 80 years ago, people were talking about the strange properties that exist within a continent. They see similarities between plants and animals. And invertebrate insects and such, and the various mammals, all varieties of organisms share some properties within the continent that evolution doesn't explain those. And so they've proposed that long ago, that......particles, pollen, for example, carries genetic information and we breed it. And a lab in Germany, for, I guess, going back 15 years at least, has demonstrated that if you eat beef, for example, you can trace the genetic DNA patterns, the actual... long pieces of DNA from the beef that you ate into your bloodstream and into your cells. We're incorporating not only viruses, but just cellular DNA from the various species that we eat. So it's entirely possible that when you cough on someone, for example, that they inhale not only viral... infections, but your DNA is all around you, and anyone who contacts you is simulating that. They've now demonstrated that a good number of people have been tested, and after death they can test a woman's brain tissue, for example. And find the DNA traces in her brain and other tissues of each of her previous husbands. Wow. Wow. So, DNA is much more pervasive than we usually think. Well, spiritually, Don, it really kind of makes sense, isn't it, if you have the idea, if you believe in reincarnations, I do, in past lives, in karma, and we......reincarnate with somebody for a certain experience and they have these things that we share. I mean, that all kind of makes sense to me. You know what I'm saying? It kind of makes sense. It's like there's no accidents kind of thing. Yeah, it's pretty much a continuous string of information, of genetic material. So, was Darwin onto something or how far off was he? Oh, he had all of his principles down, just didn't know the details, didn't know there was such a thing as DNA, but he had the idea right. Yeah, he was on to it. Dr. Ray Peete is with us, Patrick Timpone on radionetwork.com, we have lots of questions you always do. He has a Ph.D. in Biology, University of Oregon way back where he specialized in Physiology. He taught University of Oregon, Urbana College, Montana State University, he's down in Mexico, Nutritional Counseling and so he's been around for quite a while, for 45 years if you have a question or two. So what kinds of questions have you been getting about this whole Corona thing and what kind of insights do you have for our audience for March 16th which looks like who knows could be the stone. Long time to go with this country. Do you have any opinions on that? Where do you think this thing is going? Oh, yeah, I sort of sympathize with Trump that I think the CDC has been helping a couple of drug companies to increase their share value, skyrocketing share prices of the vaccine maker. And both World Health Organization and CDC have that connection with the vaccine industry and a lot of people have been exposed for corruption. But no one is doing anything about it. So in a typical year, the CDC has said that an average of about 40,000 Americans die of the flu. So now they're getting excited when a few dozen people die out of proportion to what they claim to be the usual annual mortality from flu. Is it true that most of these people when they call the flu it's really it's a pneumonia kind of a goes in the lungs and does that whole thing? Yeah, and the way the CDC has built up the market for flu vaccines is to call anyone who dies of pneumonia a death from influenza, but a very old person, say a hundred-year-old person without any particular sickness might just eat too much raw cabbage or something that gives them gas. And that will cause pneumonia, and so people dying of pneumonia can't be counted as flu deaths, so CDC has been fudging on that. But it happens that over 10 years ago, the coronavirus was known to simply activate the common cold. Inflammation systems, the  anthotensin system, for decades we've had the  anthotensin receptor blockers and ACE inhibitors. The anthotensin converting enzyme produces the inflammatory protein that causes blood pressure to rise and so on. And there's a close interaction between serotonin and anthotensin and those are both well studied causes of aging related inflammation. So your anthotensin exposure and production will increase in old age and that increases your... your likelihood of getting pneumonia from anything. It's a general inflammatory system that increases contraction of blood vessels and risk of clotting and fatigue of interfering with energy production and so on. And the people who are dying at a very high rate from the coronavirus... are those who already are suffering from circulatory disease, hypertension, heart disease, and stroke. And so they already have an active angiotensin system. And the virus finds an environment already going in the direction... It happens that the ACE, the angiotensin converting......enzyme number two, ACE2, it's the receptor for the virus. The virus attaches to that in the process of entering a cell and becoming infective. And ACE2 is the enzyme that undoes the work of ACE itself. ACE... produces androtensin and ACE2 then destroys androtensin. So what the virus does in binding to ACE2 seems to be inactivating the inactivator of androtensin. That leaves ACE free to make androtensin, which then doesn't have any way out. So it accumulates. Causing all of the dry cough, the high fever, increased hypertension and stroke and so on. Someone was on the show conjecturing that Oriental people tend to have more of these ACE2 guys in their body. Is that possible? If it's ACE2, yeah, that would let them. Be more vulnerable. It would be a better target for the virus, but it would also suggest that having that without the virus would be more resistant to the age-related inflammation. I kind of lost you there. Since that's the protective enzyme, the ACE2, if you have a lot of it, you're like a young person. Young people have more of that and so are less susceptible to the virus but also to age-related degenerative diseases. So why do you think there was so much going on in this Wuhan place? I mean, can we conjecture that from where you sit? What was the question? Why was there so many people affected like in this Wuhan city? Oh! Well, have you heard about the military games? Of course, yes, of course. Yeah, the American soldiers left exactly 14 days before the outbreak. Oh, I hadn't heard that, really? South Korean and Taiwan virologists have traced the gene pattern back to find that... In the US, there are five different strains of the coronavirus. The Wuhan strain is just one of those. And they say logically you can have derived the Wuhan from one of those pre-existing five strains, but you wouldn't have at this time. Five descendants and the inheritance goes the other way that the Wuhan strain is like a branch on the tree and the preceding varieties of the virus were existing in the U.S. Already. Already. And many of us had this, already have these guys in there, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, the CDC patented the coronavirus 17 years ago. Oh, they did. Good for them. And research was being done at Fort Detrick, supposedly creating pathogens to create vaccines to counter them. So the suggestion has been made that there was an accidental release of that. And an article in Nature years ago said people have been quoting, well the recent comment on that old article was that people are citing this article to indicate that the virus originated at the Fort Detrick lab. That couldn't be possible because it would incriminate. Fort Detrick, basically. But it's possible, in your opinion, that it was a bioweapon thing? Yeah. And I guess it could be very possible that this was a whole controlled release thing for all kinds of political reasons? Yeah. They shut down the lab in July or August and then there was the epidemic of... lung damage or pneumonia blamed on vaping poisons, but then, shortly after that, the Wuhan episode. I'm kind of confused. Well, in the lab you can accelerate evolutionary changes and make very improbable things that might never statistically happen in a living organism. Which makes it just not easy for the human body to work with it because evolution you just kind of figure it out as you go with these viruses that are... Theoretically everywhere, right, these viruses? Yes, and in these labs researching pathogens, creating pathogens to imagine an attack and how to create a vaccine to it. The pathogens they create are more imaginative, I think, than nature. Yeah, I mean, so it's... I guess it's evident that somebody's going to come out with a vaccine for this thing soon, right? And they'll probably then want everybody to get it or sell it? Yeah, that's why the stock prices of that vaccine company have gone up so much, because they say they're close to coming to the market with it. But the trouble is that for... ever since before the swine flu, the guy that got fired for exposing the non-existence of the swine flu, he was warning that the whole thing is pointless because flu viruses mutate faster than you can create a vaccine and test it for safety. So by the time you can show that......vaccine is effective and safe, there will be no flu left to......to do, to do anything with. Yeah. So, I mean, because you would have to make a flu virus a year before the flu season anyway, right? Yeah, yeah. So if the lab was very clever, they could produce the disease a year ahead. Yeah, put that one out there. Yeah. Well, what do you think? There's been people around over the years that have conjectured that this HIV thing is not really a virus that you can see, and it's just not there. And there's a German Supreme Court that just upheld a biologist's claim, this article that we put on our website, that measles virus does not exist. It just doesn't exist. Yeah, but I've followed Peter Duesberg's argument closely now for 35 or... 40 years. He has never been proven wrong. He lost his research grants and is now officially out of the science world because he persists with his evidence and... And what evidence is that? Let's recap. What evidence has Duesberg said for the last 40 years? That there is... He says it's... The genetic DNA strip is a retrovirus. He says it's a harmless retrovirus, and we're full of such DNA. When we're under stress, it shows up in the blood, so you can have a blood test for it, but all it's showing is that you're a stressed individual, and that's just one of many pieces of DNA that shows up in this cloud. At the time he was presenting his argument, this other information of microvesicles carrying DNA and RNA all through the body every time we're under stress, that just wasn't known except to the acupuncture world. It's now a common knowledge. Stress causes retrovirus material to explode into the bloodstream so you can find and sell a blood test for just about anything you can imagine. So which follows then with some people they go through this quote flu season unquote and they're stressed or worried and angst and they'll come up with something where somebody else won't because it's already there and it just manifests itself. Yeah and people have tested blood samples taken in army recruits decades before anyone suggested that there was AIDS or HIV virus from the 1960s for example and giving the standard DNA analysis to those blood samples every year tested. Half percent of the population tested positive for AIDS. Every year, standing as far back as they had blood samples, 0.5 percent tested positive. And more recently, when you go across and actually look at random blood samples, it's still half a percent is infected. But if you pick out sick people, you'll find a very high percentage. So I guess it's possible, this is all conjecture, but the whole thing with the gay lifestyle could have been, I don't know, just fear and angst and maybe guilt? Peter Duesberg said it correlated exactly with their use of particular drugs. The drug causes stress and causes the virus to come out as well as causing the sickness. So there was a correspondence, but it was caused by drug use. Oh, by giving the drug to the people who tested positive. After the treatment came out, Duesberg said, you're creating the virus that you're treating, but... Before that, he correlated the Bay Area, in particular, there was a fad of using particular vasodilator drugs for a play for experience. Yeah, like poppers. Yeah, exactly. Right, right. And how did that tie into it with the gay community, with the poppers? That particular... drug creates a very intense stress reaction that causes the release of these retroviruses. So Duisburg's argument... and you followed him for... you've been following him for 40 years? Duisburg? Yeah, from his first arguments around 1982, I think it was. My goodness. And so people that test positive, and that's a certain percentage, then they would take their AIDS drug, and then that would... that would blow the thing up. Could they pass on this this thing to somebody else through sexual encounters? Probably, I guess. The same way a mother passes on these microvesicles, it's a normal thing to pass whatever is circulating in your bloodstream to show up in the egg or the sperm. Right. Well, Dr. Pete is with us, Patrick Timpone. Dr. Pete, stay right there. We're going to take a quick little break here. Well, please tell folks about One Radio Network. As you heard the last show and now this show, you hear things that are just different from what you hear around the rest of the world. And we like that because that's where we're trying to just keep digging and digging. We're not saying that every guest has the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth, but it's up for you to make your own decision about that, judge the people and their experience and where they've been and how this might fit into your life or not. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Previously with Peter Ragnar, who's a great example of staying young and healthy, we asked him what kinds of things he takes. Personally, for myself, I look at all of the... supplements that help bolster and harmonize my hormones. And, you know, this is both for men and for women. And when you go online, there's so much information about that out there. Actually, I've heard on one of your advertisements, Therapeutic, about the pine pollen. I personally take pine pollen, which is... I think it's an amazing product. It has an amazing effect upon the body. Peter, it's one of our favorites too. Pine Pollen. Any of these are Thrival Links. You have the Pine Pollen Pure Potency, Pine Pollen Gold, and if you'd like to get it every month, the auto-ship is the best price. Also, Steven Buner's book, exclusively on pine pollen, is right there on the site too, Daniel's site. Right here on OneRadioNetwork.com. Brian Clement, who heads up the Hippocrates Institute in Florida, talked about saunas here. Elke Wright said for Brian Clement, would Brian give us some tips on what supplements we would need to take if we do saunas several times a week to replenish lost minerals from sweating? Dr. Rao, who you head on as a colleague and a friend, we do often conferences together in Europe, and I agree. We have a lot in common. Saunas here, I take a sauna, so you know this, no matter where I travel in the world, 365 days a year, I think it's mandatory. Really? 87%, listen closely, 87% more heavy metals and chemicals come out in an infrared. Well, no wonder we feel better when we take these saunas. We have to relax. Yes, we do. And there's also scientific proof, if you believe in any kind of science, that you can do, say, a urine push. In other words... You can do some ET-DDA or something like that, and pee, and then test your metals that come out. There could be some, you know, whatever, mercury or arsenic, stuff like that, lead. And then you can do a far infrared sauna for about 30 minutes. You do the test, the pee test again, and actually more of these guys come out through the kidney. Kidneys, for sure, and I would just conjecture, I guess, then the feces as well. So not only are we getting a lot of stuff out through the skin, but then, you know, the heavy metals which go in. The toxic stuff which has been shown to be in the fat, it'll come out the pee and poop as well. So these things are really helping you to detoxify. For what it's worth, I do one almost every day of my life, and I just do it. They've been incredibly helpful for me to stay well and happy, happy boy. So if you'd like to get one, we have the RelaxVar Infrared Sauna. They're made in Taiwan Medical University. They've won several awards for the technology of the far infrared rays. You sit in there, you see the picture. If you're listening to the show on video this morning, you see the picture there. And you can just email me and we'll give you one for $1,150 delivered lower 48 and we ship them all over the world, all over the world, the lower 48 and if you live in the EU, for example, it'll come with the proper plug. It'll just work just fine. For you. So that's the Relaxfar Infrared Sonar. I think the retail is about $1,300. I don't think you can calculate a dollar figure to what this, the goodness it can do for you to help detoxify whatever, you know, is going on around there and planet Earth, which is kind of strange these days. So it's a good, great investment, but you have to email me to get the deal because we can't put it in print. Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com. Just a quick plug here on the AquaCare Hydrogen Machine. Folks have been asking if they can get these shipped to Europe. You see the picture if you're listening on video. Yes, you can. George sent it with a little adapter. So if you live in the EU, anywhere in Japan, this will work for your particular plug. They do ship them all over the world. And the one year, no questions asked, money back guarantee for this hydrogen-browns gas producing machine works. For the promo code ONERADIO and then the one year, no questions asked, money back and then a lifetime warranty. Just so you know, on oneradionetwork.com you can click an order if you want to get one of these guys and we think they're just really cool. Just pretty amazing technology and just email me if you have any questions or use promo code ONERADIO on the machine. We're talking with Dr. Ray Peet and he's here the third Monday of each month at 10.30 Central. So we're real grateful you take the time to do this. Dr. Peet, thank you. People really enjoy hearing from you. You want to do some emails? Okay. Here is from Amy. I broke three bones on my left shoulder on Friday, March 6, fractured the right knee. I use Tabasco for topical pain relief. It's working for me. What can I do to aid in the speeding up of healing? I'm not planning on surgery. Have you used any magnets, Dr. Pete? Have you ever used magnets and what else can she put on this guy topically to help heal or internally? The Tabasco idea is a traditional medical idea to increase circulation. I think it does work. Ultrasound, general low energy, low frequency ultrasound greatly accelerates bone healing. You can get a cheap apparatus for, I think, around $100 and applying that a little bit every day does. Internally, it probably imitates the action of the Tabasco sauce, and red light has a similar increase open blood vessels and accelerate energy production and speed healing. Does it have to be some fancy red light with the particular, or it could just be the chicken lamps, the ones that we use, right? Yes, sunlight is best because it increases your vitamin D, which is the other essential bone healing factor. I was diagnosed with an x-ray with a little bone spur on C4, C5, you know, kind of thing, and one of the chiropractors recommended one of those ultrasound machines, you know, to help that whole thing just kind of normalize itself. And I don't know, I think it was like 150 bucks and it's really nice and they're easy to use too, aren't they? Yeah, they accelerate wound healing in general. Someone found that infected tonsils healed up when they put an ultrasound probe on them. Pretty interesting. Here's an email. Dr. Pete, you said that potatoes, rice and hominy are good foods. So does that mean that you don't care about the... glycemic index are low than it may be on our body? Yeah, I'm cautious about the starches. Any starch, if you take it, even when it's well cooked, a load of starch can pass directly into your bloodstream. In mouse experiments, they could show that. Any of the starches with grains ranging from 5 microns to 100 microns, all of those could pass through the wall of the intestine into the bloodstream unless there was a lot of fat and fiber taken with it. Once these get into the bloodstream, the particles might be bigger than capillaries. And depending on the size, they can plug blood vessels and cause tissue cells to be deprived of blood supply. So I stopped eating most starches about 40 years ago when I read that research. The research has been repeated many times now, so it wasn't just one person's. Yes. Exceptional. And so then what kind of foods did you drop out after believing this research to be accurate? Rice, wheat, potatoes primarily. The only starch I eat now, hominy or tortillas made with the lime process called nixtamalized corn. What's hominy? I, you know, of course we've heard of hominy grits. Can you actually buy? Hominy, that's kind of a, you could make a little cereal with butter or whatever and be good for you? Can you buy it? Yeah, the lime breaks down the starch so that I had students experiment with it and it didn't have any of those harmful effects that we could identify. The lime also digests the protein, makes it more nutritious. Can you purchase hominy that's already been all limed up and ready to go? Yeah, except the canned, whole, wet hominy almost always comes with additives to keep it white. And the sulfite can be dangerous for a lot of people. Can you buy organic dry hominy that's been... Yeah, yeah, yeah, and you just cook it up. It's the same as hominy grates, only in big pieces. Yeah, yeah, it isn't hominy unless it's been cooked in lime. I don't know about it. What's that word, nixtamized? Nixtamalized. Nixtamalized. And that takes away the whole fat thing that you talked about. It takes out most of the polyunsaturated fat. It increases the niacin content and it predigests the starch to a great extent. Could that be part of the issue that all of the no-grain people are not really......talking about, but could be an issue with people having a hard time with eating these grains? You know, the Gundrys with the lectins and all these people. Oh, yeah. In the U.S. Southern states, pellagra was a big problem, but because they were eating corn without the lime treatment, the Central Americans, Mexicans, South Americans... Chinese, everyone for thousands of years were cooking their grains in ashes, producing sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide or burned limestone for the lime, and they were detoxifying their grains, but at the same time that would produce a lot of niacin. and reduce the leucine content. Without that, people were getting very sick with pellagra. Can you lead us to a concise, clear way that we can do this whole lime thing at home if we want to eat some of these starches? Yeah, you can buy powdered lime. At any, I think some of the big markets like Whole Foods are probably selling it now, but for sure at any Latino market. Powdered lime, right? Yeah, and if you want a big kettle, like a gallon of water, you put in maybe a pound or two of corn kernels. A big tablespoon, heaping tablespoon or two of the lime and boil it until the seeds swell up to about the size of an olive and get soft and that's how many of the cellulose coating separates from it at that time. Stir it and strain off the flaky material that isn't pleasant. And that's how they do it in Mexico, right? Because they kind of know. They kind of know that it works better for the body in tortillas. Yeah, and tastes much better. It's interesting. Ordinary bread, even if you chew it for quite a while, you don't notice the sweetness from... from your saliva acting on it, but with a tortilla or hominy, in just about 30 seconds you can taste the sweetness appearing. Interesting. Can you... what if you like to make your own bread and you use some heirloom wheat, like einkorn or something, could you do the whole lime thing with that? Yeah, someone has been emailing me from Italy trying the process on... All the different old traditional grains. Yeah, and she says they all work very well so you could do the same thing you do a gallon maybe of a water a pound of The wheat berries and corn would be the old traditional one and you do the same thing with a tablespoon of lime and boil it And then could then make your bread from that Yeah, Wow, pretty cool You learned this down in Mexico right when you were down there for a long time. Oh, yeah So you said fat and fiber. So what if you do a baked potato and put a lot of butter and eat some fiber, some kind of psyllium or something like that? Would that make it easier? Well, the potato itself, especially if you eat the peeling, there's enough fiber in that if you have lots of cream or butter on it. Oh, so that helps it to be more digestible. Yeah. Yeah. Dr. P, that's great stuff. Dr. P, should we be worried about melatonin in our food? Melatonin in our food? No, not that I know of. It can be toxic if you buy it in a pill and take outrageous doses. Ten milligrams, I think, can upset your hormones, but the physiological amount of melatonin... one milligram is safe. Dr. Ray Peete is with us, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com, March 16. Please pass on these links to everyone that you care about. Dr. Peete, you recommended drinking kale broth, but what about herbs such as tarragon or parsley or dill and so on? Many of those are very full of allergens, so if you have any digestive problems or respiratory congestion......you should check your sensitivity to those foods. Here's another email. You have mentioned that our teeth are absorbed calcium. Would washing our mouths out with limewater help restore our enamel? Well, that's a good question. There are superficial cavities, not cavities, but superficial imperfections. We'll pick up calcium right out of the solution. Calcium phosphate crystallizes right into the solution, but the same lime solution you cook the corn in probably won't help except as a detergent effect. Baking soda is a good detergent to clean. Remove the starch or sugar particles but it needs the phosphate with the calcium for these repair processes and the enamel defects. We've been promoting a product called Perlsium which is from real pearls and they seem to do that. I've seen it in my own teeth where it actually fills up little ridges, you know, fills up little ridges. Because it's... It's the kind of calcium, you said it works, and I forget the name of it. I think that's calcium carbonate. Calcium carbonate, right. Yeah, the first calcium to be laid down in the bones, for example, is calcium carbonate. And then as it ages and matures, it takes up the phosphate. Wow, interesting. Cody writes in from Florida, I was listening to the show, I heard... Dr. Pete mentioned that he doesn't eat potatoes. I'm interested to know why. I think we covered that one, right? We've already covered the potato thing. So even though potatoes with a lot of cream and the skins, you just still pass on those knowing what you... Yeah, mostly for the allergenic effect of that whole family. Tomatoes, eggplant, bell peppers, for example. Oh, the whole nightshade thing. Do you think there's something real with that? Yeah, quite a few people have an allergic sensitivity to it. Dr. Ray Peat, here's Beth in Norton, Illinois. Do you have any theories on what would make a person susceptible to getting shingles or thoughts on how to prevent them, shingles? Yeah, it's a stress breakout of the chicken pox. virus of the herpes family and it's probably involving those microparticles that are shed by cells under stress and aspirin by reducing stress and inflammation, all of the anti-inflammatory things help to prevent the cycling. Recurring episodes of shingles, once it starts, then it just has to play out over a period of a week or so. But during that time, if you do all of the anti-stress things, vitamin D, lots of milk and orange juice, some aspirin, vitamin K. has some anti-inflammatory effects that protect the blood vessels. Good old aspirin does that. So I know some of my friends out of town who go to traditional doctors, they have them on these little aspirins for this or that. Not a bad idea then? Yeah, aspirin actually has germicidal antiviral properties. There was a study... done in Washington, D.C. of AIDS patients, giving them big doses of aspirin. And they were improving, and the study was called off despite the disappearance of the AIDS symptoms. But going back though, if these viruses, like you've been talking about in our first guest, are really doing a lot of... things they're supposed to do, what would be a situation where we want to go in and try to kill them with this or that? I'm kind of on the... confused with that idea. Kill... kill which? The virus? Yeah, kill the virus, right. The... some of... when... when your body can't integrate them... the... the body starts to disintegrate. It's a matter of energy. You... you can repair yourself and advance to the next stage of functioning if you have the... the energy to do it. But when... when you're just not using oxygen properly... so the things that create stress are... are those that block oxygen use. And you end up producing lactic acid instead, wasting the glucose making lactic acid. And the lactic acid accelerates the process, producing inflammation and further reducing the ability to use oxygen because that process is part of wound healing, which is a reversion to a primitive. In the first stages of growth of the fertilized egg, it relies on a very energetic use of the energy supply, a wasteful use of oxygen to produce intensely fast growth. The lactic acid production ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ It is good during wound healing but for the whole organism, you want to get quickly out of that stage and back to oxygen use for full energy production and with aging and accumulated toxins and such, it becomes harder to restore the full oxidative metabolism, so any little viral threat can become permanent. So that's the argument for people in a weakened condition on meds and nursing homes and all that. You know, that might be a case to go in and try to manipulate too because they don't have the energy to deal with it. Yeah, and carbon dioxide is what should be produced in producing energy rather than lactic acid. And one of the things that will make it... easier for, for example, a wounded or sick or aged person to restore their energy is, for example, bathing in carbon dioxide in the bathtub or a bag. You absorb it through your skin and that increased level of carbon dioxide turns off the inflammatory process. It suppresses the wasteful production of lactic acid and reduced lactic acid tends to turn off all of these virus release processes. And how do we, what do we put in the bath to do the whole thing through the skin to create more carbon dioxide internally? You absorb, they've known that in mineral springs that are rich in... carbon dioxide and bicarbonates, the bicarbonate itself is turned in the surface of the skin into carbon dioxide and is absorbed into the skin even though the carbon dioxide in the bloodstream is very high normally compared to the water you're bathing in. The body has such an affinity for it, it will pull it. out of the water, converting bicarbonate to carbon dioxide at the surface and then absorbing the carbon dioxide. The pure gas likewise enters the skin, dissolves in the body fluids very well. So you're talking about actually putting baking soda in your bathtub? Yes, that's a traditional thing. A pound or so of baking soda and maybe some Epsom salts with it, but both of those, the magnesium will be absorbed better for the bicarbonate that goes into the body with it. And that would be the argument too for a little bit of baking soda even internally if you want it. Yeah, and on the skin it's remarkably therapeutic. Dr. Ray Peete is with us, Patrick Timpone, and it's March 16th. Please tell folks about our show here, and we have a lot of very interesting people, as you can hear. What does Dr. Peete, from Chris in Canada, think about hearing loss? My doctor said, well, we just kind of lose some of our hearing as we get older. Is there anything I can do to reverse this? Thyroid is the single most important thing. There have been a couple of publications showing that high estrogen damages the hair cells in the hearing apparatus and I think prolactin along with the estrogen, you want to make sure those aren't elevated. They tend to go up with aging and thyroid and vitamin D are among the things that prevent... those types of damage to the apparatus of the inner ear. Larry writes in, I'm 73, male, atherosclerosis, my left... How do you say that? Carotid artery? How do you say it? C-A-R-T-I-D. Oh, carotid. Carotid artery, sorry. 100% occluded. And a year ago, my right carotid was 70% occluded, according to last week's ultrasound. My occlusion is getting worse and my doctor wants me to have an angiogram. Does Dr. Pete have any suggestions for maybe non-invasive alternative tests and or issues? He said I've used liquid ETA, vitamin D3, vitamin DK2, natal kinase, liposomal magnesium, but that's not helped the condition. The process we were talking about in relation to the virus, the angiotensin system, is at the root of the development of atherosclerosis, and experiments in animals and people show that you can reverse the process and start getting the plaques unloaded. Using the ACE inhibitors and the antrotensin receptor blockers. What's an ACE inhibitor? The enzyme that makes antrotensin, the first approach they had was a molecule that blocks the function of that enzyme. So you don't make antrotensin, but it's more immediate and complete. You can get 100%. blockage of the receptor so the antrotensin stops having its harmful effect with the blocker losartan, for example. A recent, last week I think, article in Lancet magazine by three European doctors researching lung function. warned the public not to use Losartan as the Chinese had recommended and these European doctors I think failed to read enough of the research of the preceding 10 or 15 years because Losartan protects, the Chinese have good evidence that it's protective against the. Inflammatory processes of the virus but separate research completely unrelated virus shows that the molecules like Losartan help to reverse atherosclerosis. Have a very general anti-inflammatory process even migraine headaches it's now recognized as a very helpful thing along with serotonin receptor. Serotonin and antitensin and histamine are very closely interactive with processes like migraine and atherosclerosis. And is losartan a pharmaceutical med? Yeah, it's I think the cheapest of them and among the most effective. Can you buy like natural or take natural ACE inhibitors or androtensin guys? Progesterone, the body's natural, it lowers the receptor production so it's not as immediate and powerful as these pharmaceutical drugs, but it works. So actually a progesterone cream even for a guy would help to de-plac the body? Yes, slightly, but not as powerfully. How about high-dose vitamin C? We've often heard that that'll do it. Any research showing that's true? A little, but it has its side effects too. Too much? I mean, what... Yeah. The manufactured stuff is never absolutely clean. An experimenter using distilled water put a gram of reagent grade. Highest purity ascorbic acid into it and then put it in an electron spin resonance apparatus and showed it was as full of free radicals as a killing dose of x-rays. Wow, really. Speaking of x-rays, if one does an x-ray or has to do or guys go out and do CT scans, are those things that we can, if we want to do that, it... to minimize the ill effects of x-rays, or it's just something that happens in the body? Will the body repair from any damage x-rays do? Oh, all of the anti-inflammatory things do help. Do they? Losartan included. Losartan. It's protective against x-rays like progesterone and aspirin. Even turmeric and things like aspirin, turmeric? Yeah, yeah. Here is an email from Ty, 65-year-old, taking two grains of Natrathroid daily. He could foods have experiment with many approaches to reverse type 2 diabetes level. Don't want sugar meds, some ideas of what I can do? Well, vitamin D is helpful. Vitamin K is another thing that helps to handle the... the calcium which helps to handle the sugar. Thyroid and vitamin D work so closely together, you can't really separate their effects. A little plug here for Sirthrival. Daniel Vitalis, they have a vitamin D K2 product on through any Sirthrival link. Very, very clean ingredients, nothing yucky in there, very good. So, you get the vitamin D and the K2 as well. Some folks take these big doses of vitamin D and there's actually a company that's putting out a 50,000 kind of unit thing. In general, how do folks kind of figure out a vitamin D dosage if they want to take extra vitamin D? During the winter, 5,000 units a day is able to bring most people up into the... middle of the range, 50 nanograms per milliliter, 50 to 60 is a good healthy range. And for some reason, I guess doctors don't figure people are going to take their daily vitamins so they like to prescribe these 50,000 unit doses once a month or once a week until a person gets to the level up. But would it actually... hang in there all that time? I mean, 50,000? Yeah, it's oil-soluble, so one dose will increase your blood level gradually because it goes first into your fat tissues and then is gradually assimilated into your circulating blood. Downsides to having too much, D? Yeah, but... It's highly exaggerated in the experiments. It takes a million units a day for many days before you get the real calcification. But a lot of people try to discourage its use by saying that you can get calcified blood vessels with fairly moderate doses. But... I think the biggest misunderstanding of vitamin D and calcium is that they think that the calcium you eat and the vitamin D are going to go right into your soft tissues. But what causes calcification of the soft tissues is a failure of energy. Exactly the process that causes atherosclerosis and all of the inflammatory processes. The parathyroid hormone and aldosterone, aldosterone is part of the renin-anthotensin aldosterone system, increasing your blood pressure and all of the stress-related, virus-related conditions. Parathyroid hormone and aldosterone collaborate to knock... down your energy production and shift you over to lactic acid production. Parathyroid hormone is... its main function is to pull calcium out of your bones for emergency use in the bloodstream. So, when your aldosterone and parathyroid hormone are high, you will have increased blood calcium and the calcification of the soft tissues, which is... precursor to atherosclerosis and hardening of the arteries. But if you lower your aldosterone and parathyroid hormone by having enough calcium and salt in your diet, lots of calcium in your diet, it can be thousands of milligrams a day, will tend not to calcify your arteries but to lower the parathyroid hormone, along with vitamin D, lowering the... Parathyroid. And when the lower... the parathyroid is lower, your mitochondria are able to work full speed to produce energy, which keeps calcium where it belongs, in the bones, not in the blood vessels. So warning people not to eat calcium and restrict their vitamin D is exactly what's going to increase your blood calcium and your blood vessel calcification. Whoa, so these dark greens are good, right? Collards and all kale cook these babies up, right? They're good for you. Yeah, because they have the highest ratio of calcium and magnesium to phosphate. Phosphate, phosphorus in nuts, seeds and meat and fish, the high phosphate to calcium ratio increases your parathyroid hormone and damages your bones and puts you in a very bad the calcium into your blood vessels. Oh, and nuts, seeds and meat. Yeah, it's the high calcium. So are you making an argument for like just a vegetarian greens thing? Well, it's best to let the cow eat the greens and then drink the milk and eat the cheese because the cow has the apparatus to detoxify the greens. The greens The plant doesn't want its leaves to be eaten so it puts irritants and digestion blockers into the leaves. The leaves and seeds have defensive toxic chemicals to prevent being eaten by insects and cows. So the cow has the extra stomach which favors the growth of microorganisms. For more UN videos visit www.un.org which destroys those toxins and release the amino acids and other nutrients to form the milk. So a cow is a detox factory. Have you ever had the Basque, I think it's sheep cheese, the Basque cheese? Oh yeah, I use it every day. Wow, man, is that the best ever cheese or what? I like it. I like almost all cheeses, but every day I do eat sheep cheese. Hi, good morning. My name is Mel. I'm from Fort Worth, Texas. Dr. Pete, thank you for being here for us. I hadn't drunk orange juice in 20 years, and after listening to your show... I started to drink the orange juice, and for the first time in 25 years my hands and feet for the last six months were nice and warm, and now they are back to being cold, so I don't know what the deal is here, and also the first time my thyroid tests came out 0.1 and it was always 2 and 3, and the doctor kept saying, it's normal, it's normal. So I'm wondering what's going on, and also I want to know about your formulation for progesterone cream, is it done by one company or the same formula? Okay, let's do all those. So you're saying that at first when you did the orange juice, then your hands got warmer, and then they didn't, and then you said the titer, you mean you're talking about your TSH? Yeah. Okay, your TSH went from where? From two and three to point one. I was thrilled to bits. Well, that's good, right? It goes down, Dr. P, right? Her TSH went down, right? Yeah. Normally, when you look at healthy people, they have the lowest TSH, but also stress hormones can lower it. So if something caused your cortisol and adrenaline to go sharply up, that also could account for lowering the TSH. So... In that case, it's important to look at your temperature, heart rate, and also if you have a blood test for T3. The T3 is the active hormone that produces the heat. How could the orange juice help her thyroid start working better to get more circulation in her hands and feet? It does contain the reason I recommend it. A favorite carbohydrate is that it comes with many very powerful anti-inflammatory flavonoids. Naringin and nobiletin and a whole variety of very anti-inflammatory things that can help your thyroid work. But when you're... hands suddenly get cold, it's very important to look for what's happening. Sometimes it could be calcium deficiency or vitamin D deficiency interfering with energy production by increasing parathyroid hormone. Not getting enough salt in your diet is another thing. Salt and calcium work closely to hold down the albastrone parathyroid system. Wow, so it gets a little complicated. So you are, my dear, you were interested in knowing something about a progesterone formula? Yeah, Dr. Raypeat has. Where could I get it and are they all the same, whichever company? Yeah, he'll tell you here. Just listen, okay? Yeah, the formula I designed in the 1970s, progesterone in vitamin E. And natural coconut oil, that has been made ever since by a company called KenoGen. KetoGen? Keto? KenoGen, yeah. The email is KenoGen at gmail.com. Is that K-E-N like Nancy? Yeah, K-E-N-O-G-E-N. And so that's just progesterone, vitamin E, and coconut oil? Mm-hmm. KinoGen, and you like that product because you developed the formula. Yeah. And so there you go. Does that help you? Is it just that one company that does that, ECOGEN, whatever? Yeah, that's the same company that I licensed it to long ago. Okay, thank you so much. I appreciate all your help. Yeah, very interesting. KinoGen. And so you believe that that's a better choice than just doing the... progesterone cream a la carte, you know, like from the wild yams or something. Yeah, if you want to use it on your skin, it spreads more easily if you add some coconut or olive oil because it has so much vitamin E in it that it's very viscous and can be diluted with about an equal part of olive or coconut oil. Oh, cool. Here's one for you. Boy, this is a new one. I'm very interested if there are any movies that Dr. Pete found enjoyable or noteworthy as a positive experience for him. Also, any fiction books? Oh, um, none. I would have to think about that. I have occasionally read fiction, and now and then I see a good movie. They aren't on the top of my head. Nothing that comes to the top of your head. Doc, we ran a little late. Can you stick around for a few more minutes? Okay. Okay, stay right there. Yeah, guys, we normally end at noon and just keep them 90 minutes, but we got a lot of emails and we got started late, so I'd like you to stay right there, please. Previously, with the highly credentialed Dr. Thomas Levy, he argues because the literature shows that oxidation is the cause of death. The cause of disease. But the whole point is the location, the concentration, the duration, the distribution of oxidized biomolecules determines 100% of all diseases. And so that's why I say oxidative stress doesn't cause disease, oxidation is disease. Is disease. If there's no oxidized biomolecules, you don't have a toxin. The toxic effect is. Oxidation of biomolecules. That's the entirety of it. And by the grace of God, several months ago, George Wiseman said this about hydrogen. Hydrogen is the world's best antioxidant by a long shot. First of all, it's 700 times smaller than something like CoQ10, 400 times smaller than vitamin C, things like that. So it can literally go, the hydrogen molecule can literally go through everything in your body and go right into the very DNA and repair it. So now it makes sense why George was able to say this back in August 2019 with such conviction. The body accepts that gas. And uses it to heal everything. It's like the fountain of youth. It's astonishing the amount of ailments. In fact, in scientific studies, and they have over a thousand scientific studies now, they are showing that it either helps the body heal directly or indirectly from virtually every ailment that ails any water-based life form. Okay, I'm sold. And I was able to get one a couple of months ago, thanks to your support. It's called the Aquacure Hydrogen Machine. Breathe the gas and bubble the water. There's a promo code ONERADIO for 10% discount. I think a great investment for you. Knowing what we know now. Visit oneradionetwork.com About a year ago, I was in the throes of this little tummy karma thing that I've had, and I was drinking just a whole lot of this pure, fresh, frozen aloe from one of our sponsors, Stockton Aloe One. And it was great, and it kept me kind of on track, but it really didn't heal the tummy, which there just had to be some kind of a gastritis thing going on or ulcer or something. And I was very curious about that, and so as of late, we found that there was some subluxation in C4, C5, which is directly tied in with the stomach and the vagus nerve, and that has been worked on over the last month. And now I'm back. I ordered three or four of the Stockton Aloe One, and it's just amazing, really. So this aloe product can really heal things in your tummy, all small intestine, things like that. Now I had this... This energy with the subluxation and you know, if you got the nerves pinched and all that, you know The stomach is not going to do much of anything except survive so help me survive but it didn't heal not like it's doing now and I'm only doing two, three, four, five ounces a day and Wow, I'm just I'm just so grateful. So this stocked in aloe one if you'd like to try some aloe This is pure aloe it They they just take out the the meat and then they they put it in the in the bottle and they fry flash Can I can ever say that flash freeze it and then that's it and it comes in frozen It's all packaged up in nice styrofoam You just throw out what you need put it in a glass thing and drink it And if you want some there's no sodium benzoate. There's nothing in there except a healing potential of aloe and it's a very very powerful you put this on your face you can do a lot of stuff with it but just drink it and I would conjecture and I'm just making it up I don't know if it's true but virtually anyone could have a good time with their stomach their small and large intestine to having aloe into your body it's just pretty pretty miraculous Stockton aloe one you can click an order on OneRadioNetwork.com Nothing is more expensive than bad information. Know the source, oneradionetwork.com Dr. Ray Peet is a Ph.D. and he's raypeet.com. It is raypeet.com, Ph.D. biology, been at it for a very, very long time. He has a newsletter that you can sign up for and he's going to give you the email here of how to do that and then it's every other month for a year or so. It's really a great price. What's that newsletter doc, that email? It's a great newsletter. At gmail.com. irepeatnewslettergmail.com. What was your latest one on? It has an s, irepeats. Oh irepeats, irepeats newsletter. Yeah, we always put that on our front. We have a hot link there right on the show. What's your latest newsletter about? Gilbert Lang's work. He died last fall about a month short of a hundred years. He was one of my early influences in biology. My first couple of weeks in graduate school, I realized my professor was talking hot air and started reading the background and found that every time he cited the source for his beliefs, if I read in the same journals, I found better contradictory work that had been published by Gilbert Lang. And so I contacted him and had been following his work steadily since 1968. So this newsletter is explaining the meaning of his work and how a sort of insanity took over biological, especially nerve function. electronic functions of cells. He gave an actual clear, consistent explanation where all of the standard things that people are still pretty much talking about are essentially impossible fantasies. Very interesting. Here's an email from Joyce, I heard an old show with... A guest that Patrick had on, Jonathan Wright, that suggested Estriol, E-S-T-O-R-I-O-L, could actually be used topically on the face for wrinkles. Does Dr. Pete think that's possible? It makes the skin take up water, so it will plump up the skin. But meanwhile, it's altering the collagen. Estriol is the weakest estrogen, ten times weaker than estradiol, but people need to use ten times more to get the effect, and the effect is exactly the same as estradiol, the powerful, dangerous estrogen. They like to use it, I don't know, still. practice but for many years they used it on cattle because it made them take up water and when they started doing that, a steak, when you put it on a frying pan it tends to exude water and so it boils instead of frying. But estrogen does that to your skin too, it makes it swell up with water and so it looks... smooth and shiny. Is that good? No. Oh, it's not. Oh, so you don't want to put estriol on your skin. It's just not a good idea. Yeah. Okay. It's pro-aging. My dissertation was on the age-accelerating effects of estrogen. Oh, you don't want to do that. Estrogen is what we get from, what, soybeans and things like that, correct? Yeah. Yeah. So we don't like those guys. I'd like to know what soap Dr. Pete uses. Many of the natural soaps are full of poofus. No, I use pure coconut soap. Coconut soap. Yeah. Yeah. I have two questions. This one is from Mary. Can Dr. Pete talk about physiologic role of norepinephrine and noradrenaline? Wow. Adrenaline system has been maligned. It's the fight-or-flight immediate response stress hormone. But it does activate other stress hormones, cortisol and so on. So it can, if it persists, it can be harmful. The history of maligning that has led people to overemphasize the opposite parasympathetic part of the nervous system, which with severe stress and aging, the parasympathetic overtakes the other side and creates the degenerative processes. Momentarily increase the epinephrine or adrenaline side can be very, very helpful if they are stopped soon enough. And sugar and salt happen to be two of the nutrients that will limit uncontrolled production of the adrenaline system thyroid. I've seen hypothyroid people who had just hour after hour their blood would be saturated with as much as 40 times the normal level of adrenaline compensating for the low thyroid function and so when you first take thyroid if you have been overproducing adrenaline. You will experience a stress speedy adrenaline reaction people think that's the thyroid action but actually the thyroid has a relaxing function you have to adapt to it gradually by getting your estrogen or your adrenaline under control and having a sugary and salty foods while you are adjusting to your thyroid. It will let you keep the adrenaline under control and then when your thyroid function is good, adrenaline is all good. It speeds your thinking and does everything helpful for adaptation. It's just the overproduction of it usually from hypothyroidism that becomes a stress problem. Very good, Thomas says mid 40s. Always had leg cramps for many many years and he was he said he would notice that sweet or salty in the evening would exacerbate it and then then he figured out that having lots of water before he went to bed would would really calm it all down and he wanted to know what could be going on and why do people get cramps mainly at night when they are lying horizontally. The parasympathetic system turns on. When you lie down, your adrenaline goes down and that's the sort of thing I was just talking about. The parasympathetic goes up at night and with age in particular, the parasympathetic starts overpowering the adrenaline system and during the night that causes your blood sugar to go down. And um... the falling blood sugar turns on other stress hormones and you go into various asthma can occur primarily at night and even epileptic seizures can be triggered by that parasympathetic dominance lowering your blood sugar. And um... But parasympathetic is better at night. It's more relaxing to sleep, right? Yeah, normally that happens with young people. But with old age it exacerbates the problems of aging. And I think thyroid hormone deficiencies is part of that age related... sleep problem. Interesting. Here's an email for you. Can pneumonia be treated at home, for example, with food or coffee or niacinamide, red light, or watching funny movies? That's funny. What do you think about that? Pneumonia, it's usually produced, most often produced by inflammatory signals that they can come from your intestine or from germs. But anti-inflammatory things, chicken soup, a source of salt and gelatin, for example, orange juice, milk and ice cream, all of these can help reduce inflammation, aspirin, low Sartan, the thing I mentioned for end-foot tension. opposition that has been used for treating pneumonia among other things. Interesting. Which potato has the most ketones? Red, Yukon, or russet? The red potatoes are usually higher in water content. The russet... I think has the best nutrition. Technically you could find the nutrients in the Yukon, but the high... I think they're the ones with the yellow carotene content. They are harder to digest because the carotene interferes with the breakdown of the starch. Linda wants to know if you can talk about the Scandinavian... Scandinavians, how they cook fish in lye. Like lute fish, is there a health benefits? I don't think there's any. I think it was a just a preservative thing, keeping fish in storage. Amy wants to know, will charcoal help with virus? If you have a bad intestinal situation, charcoal, or I think the best approach is to have a daily carrot. A carrot salad, for example, will clean your intestine and remove anti-thyroid factors. Oh, that's the one where you put, what do you do, Doc? You put a little bit of vinegar and coconut oil on there? And the carrots? And salt. Salt? Yeah. Of course, salt. You've got to have salt. What does Dr. Pete think about mixing magnesium carbonate with vinegar and calcium gluconate to improve the absorption? Of the calcium and magnesium. Mixing magnesium carbonate with vinegar and calcium gluconate. Magnesium carbonate, first of all, a lot of people are sensitive to some impurity in most of the products that I've seen. I used to use it regularly as a magnesium supplement, but I've... had very bad headaches from it and lots of people experience that so you have to be cautious with any of those pure chemicals. Nancy wants to know is there any way to make my the valves in my legs work again? I've been diagnosed with venous reflux disease and so fearful of having the procedure done I'm doing support stockings. Anything I can do? The stockings are definitely helpful but... the cause of it is usually a hormone imbalance, high estrogen in relation to DHEA, Pregnenolone, Progesterone and Testosterone. The bad ratio of estrogen weakens the wall of the veins and lets them balloon and tend to form clots. So, having... checking your hormones, making sure that your thyroid is good, that's usually deficient causing the high estrogen to the progesterone and androgen ratio. Boy, you guys are getting clever this morning. Does Ray Peep, this is from Nathias, does Ray Peep believe in God? Depends on how you define it. I'm sort of a fan of the process theology. If you Google that, you can find one of the most famous current process theologists. They're basing their thinking on Alfred North Whitehead, who was one of my philosophical influences. Whitehead made himself unpopular among philosophers by using the word God. But if you read the process theology based on Whitehead, you'll get an idea of my approach. Dr. Pete, I love your shows. This is from Paula in Scottsdale, Arizona. My dentist used a cone beam x-ray and told me I have a cavitation in my jaw from a tooth that was extracted 40 years ago. He said about 95% of all extractions end up with some cavitations. I've never had any pain or tenderness there in my mouth, but he wants to do surgery and scrape and clean out it properly. It's going to be pretty expensive. I'm wondering if this is really......need it? No, I don't think it is. If there's no pain, there's very...almost certainly no infection. When you pull a tooth, sometimes the bone doesn't fill in the hole. No problem there. You don't believe there's a problem there? No. Okay. Cavitations. What is Dr. Pete's opinion on eating organic Adami soy? Is the estrogen... too much? Or if eaten in moderation, would it be okay? Adami soy. I think it's okay as a condiment in very limited amounts. For example, soy sauce, I think is safe to use occasionally in a small amount. But the more, for example, in Hawaii, there was a study of people who ate tofu. And those who didn't, and dementia was higher in the tofu eaters. Dementia was higher in the tofu eaters? Yeah. What's that about, I wonder? Just the estrogen? Yeah, well, I think a poor diet in general, because tofu isn't a very complete nutrient. Another study in China found that milk drinkers had much lower incidence of dementia. High-quality protein and anti-inflammatory properties of the milk. What about tempeh? You get organic tempeh. Reasonable food? In moderation, just for pleasure food, but not a staple. Final one, you'll like this one. After my husband started massaging my lower legs, it seems like the healing kicked in overdrive, swelling reduced immediately, and now I've been able to walk carefully again. Is there a correlation? Oh, sure. Of course. Love heals everything, right? Your husband will massage your legs. I mean, how could you not feel better, right? Yep. Yeah, boy. Well, Dr. Pete, thanks so much for being here. We had a great time, and I was really appreciating the whole virus stuff early on. And let us know if there's anything we can do. If you'd like to visit Dr. Pete's website, it is raypeat.com. You can look in our archives. We've had them on the show.  Quite a few times, just put Ray Pete in the search function, top right of one radio network, and pass out these links to everyone that you care about. All right, my friend, thank you, sir. You take care of yourself, and we'll talk to you next month, okay? Okay, thank you. Yes, sir, bye-bye. Dr. Ray Pete, he's a good one, huh? Well, boy, we covered a lot of territory today. I appreciate your ongoing support of what we do here. Let us know if there's anything that we can do. My email is Patrick at OneRadioNetwork.com You can like us on the YouTube thing or Facebook and the passes on the different Even though we're just doing audio right now till we get the video thing all straight It still passes on these links to other people and helps to spread the word also do the thing on YouTube or subscribe to our UB2B channel and Once we get the whole video thing straight where the lips are synced up with the sound We'll go back to putting some guests on cameras that want to be on camera. Dr. Pete doesn't do the camera thing anyway, so we just have to go with the picture, but so that's that. What are we going to do Wednesday? I've reached out to Dr. Cowan to see if he will do, ask him to do a little show with us, a special show on the whole coronavirus 5G thing that we put the video on our front page, so we'll see if that's, um, if we'll see if he responds to that. We have Richard Olry on Wednesday and we're going to go over my hair analysis. He's going to do a whole thing on how the hair analysis works and how you might use that technology to help you. A co-founder of Health Choice. He's a cool guy. Mark Blacksell will be here on Wednesday as well. So we're out there and we have interview requests out all over the world. And if we get something that pops in and we just do the interview, so just keep in touch with One Radio Network. And if you might hear some shows just kind of pop in, look just like we did the other day with one of them. Don't even recall which one. Anyway, I love you all very much. Thanks for being here. Appreciate your ongoing support and we appreciate you very much and I love you and I'll see you. May the blessings be.