 Nothing is more expensive than bad information. Know the source. OneRadioNetwork.com Well a very pleasant good morning to you, oh well let's turn my microphone on, hold on a second. I've got a little control here that we turn off during the weekend. There it is. Well, here we are. Very pleasant good morning to you. This is Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Hi. It is the 21st of December. Quite a day. The summer, or the winter solstice rather. The longest day of the year. Beginning tomorrow, the days will start to get longer. This is pretty cool. Some very interesting things astrologically going on around this time. You can look into the night sky tonight around 7 p.m. Central and You'll see the moon there and then if you go down to your right To your right make a little catty corner to your right you'll see that Jupiter and Saturn the two largest planets in the solar system Will appear closer together than they have ever been since the Middle Ages 1226 is the last time they were this close together and a lot of the astrological people are saying this is some really cool thing you have the Star of Bethlehem thing happening today and then also the summer solstice and this conjunction will take place in the low western sky about an hour or so after sunset where you are if you'd like to check it out 1226 I looked it up, King Henry III was the dude, the main dude back the last time that these guys were close as close as they are today, and a lot of the astrological people that are looking at corona the the fight for a republic Going on right now, which is the hugest thing in my opinion what has happened to this country since the revolution as a republic is kind of hanging by a thread and there's about one month to go before the thread will break and now the astrological people and a lot of the people that we're following our our sources are saying just you know it's not over till the fat lady sings and and She's very hoarse right now the fat lady Okay, so we're honored to have Dr.. Ray peed on as our last show for the year. We're going to be taking some time off after this show up until around the fifth when Anna Bergstrom will be here and we're going to finish up our screenplay and just rest up a little bit. It's been quite a year for all of us who have looked into the movie out there we call physical reality and hard as we may try many of us got caught up in a little bit and that'll kind of wear you out. So we can all use a little rest but we're going to have all kinds of different archive shows up here. Just a little bit of business before we introduce you to Dr. Ray Pete who's one of our phase very popular renowned nutritional counselor he's been at it for a very long time it's about late 60s but we'll introduce you to Ray Pete in a minute just a little bit of business here. We are totally phased out of Facebook. We are going to be cancelling that account at the end of the year in about two weeks. We're moving over to Parler and MeWe and so if you like to connect with people of like minds, MeWe is a good place to do it. Just go to MeWe, Patrick Timpone, you can connect up with people, just has to be friends with us or whatever they call it. But it's public to everybody and then you can communicate with people and then we're doing some posting on Parler which is more like a Twitter thing where you just post different articles and videos that we come across from some of our sources and some insights. But mostly the MeWe thing is more like Facebook and then we've gravitated off of YouTube so we won't be censored out there. All of our videos are on one radio network, just go to one radio network, click on videos and you'll see all the video shows there. Not quite all of them yet, we'll be getting them all up in the next week or so. So we're bypassing YouTube because they've been censoring us and Facebook, they're old news. So there we are, that's going to be where we'll hit the ground running in the first of the year and we're going to have some very cool people on the first of the year. A doctor who has co-authored a very landmark study on vaccines and showing that the kids who are unvaccinated are healthier than the vaccinated kids. He's going to be here next, his name is Dr. Wheeler, next the first week in January. Also Martin Armstrong, a fellow we've been trying to get on for a very long time. Fred Deshefsky in the real world of money. Judy Mikovich is going to be here in the beginning of January. She's the one that came out with information about Fauci and the whole A.I. AIDS pandemic. And then Ralph Moss, he is a PhD and the author of the book Cancer Incorporated coming up in the first of the year. So we have a lot of great things coming up. Stay in touch with us through our website, One Radio Network, and then also through those social media places as well. Dr. A.P., as we said, is here on the third Monday of every month. Happy to have him here. He's a PhD nutritional counselor and he worked on hormones and really got his start there. Specialization in hormones, wrote his dissertation in 72, which he outlined the ideas on progesterone and hormones. He's here on the third Monday of every month. We're pleased to have him. And one of his specialties is hormones as well. Dr. Ray Peat, good morning. Welcome back. How are you, sir? Good morning. Very good. Yeah, well, nice to have you here. As you know, there are not a whole lot of people out there talking about what could be going on in the world of coronavirus, Dr. Peat, other than just a few tidbits on Fox News, where they kind of courted the idea that the vaccines could be dangerous for just a few minutes. And now we have Senator Rand Paul, who's out big time, questioning the whole idea of the efficacy of the masks. But when we talk about this, you know, one of the biggest things we get, Dr. Peat, from people, people in my family and other people who really watch mainstream TV, is one of the biggest questions they say to us, well, what about all these people? What about all these deaths? I mean, look at all these deaths. How can you say that this thing isn't what they are saying it is? And I know you've been looking into that as well. What can you help them with in that regard? I just read an article that was removed from the... website because of its dissent, but a professor at Johns Hopkins just a few weeks ago wrote an article looking at the pattern of deaths in the U.S. in 2020, Genevieve Breyand, I think her name is, and it is saying what... Several of us have been saying since last winter that essentially nothing special has been happening this year as far as deaths and respiratory disease deaths go. I looked at the total number of deaths recorded from previous years and compared them to what the CDC had done. For each week of this year and they were remarkably historically low for months and it was only in the middle of the summer when a few people had been saying that it's very interesting that the spike of deaths listed in the second week of April for COVID which was the exact week that the listed deaths from influenza dropped sharply just within a day or two. People stopped dying of influenza supposedly when the surge of COVID-19 came. But the quantity missing from all of those weeks before April 12 were just about the same quantity as the number of people in the spike. Danny Rancourt had this graph on Dale Bigtree's interview. He said in and of itself that was enough to put all of the top people in jail because it's so obvious a fraud. But when Genevieve Briand looks at these facts, she notices that there was a historical fall off in deaths from heart attacks, strokes, and a couple of the other standard invariable deaths. that corresponded to the spike. There was a historical fall off in deaths from heart attacks, strokes, and a couple of the other standard invariable deaths that corresponded to the spike. So what they seem to have done is just change the definition of people dying of heart attacks and strokes. The order went out by default if you didn't know what a person died of after a stroke. So what they seem to have done is just change the definition of people dying of heart attacks and strokes. The order went out by default if you didn't know what a person died of after a stroke. The order went out by default if you didn't know what a person died of after a stroke. So what they seem to have done is just change the definition of people dying of heart attacks and strokes. Thank you for watching. and at the same time. John Rappaport has done a good article on this. At the same time, they ordered people to run the PCR test beyond its capacity of accuracy, far into the range in which it produces false positives. So they ordered people to expand the testing program using a method that is predicted and known to produce false positives. So they were getting people who weren't infected, almost certainly these false positives were being put down as having the COVID infection, and then whatever they died of, they were recorded as COVID deaths. So I'm just as skeptical as I was in February or March. Even probably more. So the New York Times is out this morning, Dr. Pete, and I mean, it's just like a tragic finish and they have a graph of the new cases in the United States is, you know, per million, is way, way above Japan seems to be the lowest. And of course, these new cases, as they're said in the news, are based on the PCR test. Some people are suggesting, Dr. Bhakti we had on, Suchart Bhakti and others, that the PCR could be as much as 95% inaccurate. You think that's possible? Yeah, when it's designed to run a maximum of 33 to 35 cycles, and Fauci ordered it to run more than 40 cycles. That's just like jiggling the machine so it puts out some kind of output, even though it has nothing to do with reality. And there was a tape that we ran on our show, I don't have it right here, but this was in, I think, July, where he was on tape doing an interview and suggested that anything over 30, he said possibly 35, but anything over 30 cycles, the CT is just showing up dead, I think is dead nucleotides or dead molecules, whatever his term was. Yeah, it would be nucleic acids. You've been at this a long time. Is it surprising? I mean, your opinion of how this thing has managed to go where it goes has gone and still going today. Yeah, and at the first sign of possible flu-like epidemic or pandemic, Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum. said this is better than a planetary warming. This is just what we need to bring things under control, to shift, to destroy the legacy economies, to shift over to artificial intelligence everywhere. Tele-medicine, remote education, remote shopping and so on. Get rid of all the retail stores, retail schools, retail hospitals and medical practices. And many are saying too, we've had quite a few shows, Dr. Pete, on the idea that the whole financial system wants to, the term being used is reset, right? And they're using this for that too. And nobody really knows what that means, but I'm sure there's a lot of digital stuff in our future. Dollars will be outlawed as physical objects. You think so? Silver or gold. And you'll have only digital money. And at that point, the banks will start copying Japan and charging interest for you to store your money in the bank. So having savings will be making money for the banks and your money will be shrinking constantly. Yeah. Not keeping up with the inflation, which is of course the expansion of the monetary supply, right? When they spend money, when they print money. They won't even have to count on puffing up the money supply to shrink everyone's money. They can just put it down on the account as the cost of storing your money. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lots of talk too about these new digital coins like the Fed Coin and the ECB is going to do one and they want people to get an app to have an app and then they'll be able to just give you digits when you need them, you know. Well, before we start taking questions, let's move on to the to the vaccine. They've been released, of course, Pfizer, quite a few reports that people are not reporting on that there's been, I think, 13,000 really what they what they claim are, how do they term, how do they use the term significant events with people, you know, that have taken the vaccine, according to news reports? I thought that there had been three or four cases of Bell's palsy and the FDA said, well, that probably would have happened anyway, even though there were three in the vaccinated people and one in the placebo. But even if it's causing that, we have drugs to treat that. So according to the FDA, a few minor things like the paralysis, as long as they have some drug to stop the pain, it's OK with them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Suchard Bhakti, who was on the show, talked about the dangers of these vaccines. In his opinion, he's a kind of quite a prominent immunologist and biologist, and he was suggesting that the idea of of genetic insertion, this RNA DNA thing is totally new and has never been done. Can you can you explain to us more clearly about what this means? What's really going into these things? Have you have you looked into that? Yeah. Have you ever heard of the reverse transcriptase enzyme? In 1969, I was in graduate school, and at that time, professors were actually talking about the central dogma of molecular biology, which is that information flows only from the DNA gene. Through RNA into protein, information can never go the other way from protein to RNA or from RNA to DNA. If it went that direction, that would be Lamartism. So absolutely, that's unthinkable. What's the word that would be? What, sir? Lamartism? Lamartism. What does that mean? Oh, the non-belief in evolution, or evolution by intention becoming what you intend to be, not what random changes impose on you. The absolute Darwinism is that everything happens by meaningless chance. Oh, like it's just a random thing. But you kind of believe, if I understand your writings, it's not that way, that we are we are more creating as we go. Right, right. And so in 1969, when Temin and Baltimore discovered that there was a retrovirus on the order of what later turned out to be the HIV AIDS thing, they found that this retrovirus consisted of RNA and that it had with it an enzyme that could copy its RNA into DNA and deposit that DNA in our genes. And then our own enzymes would forever make copies of the virus. So in that case, information was flowing from RNA to DNA. And so none of my professors could accept that that was possible, even though I think they got the Nobel Prize for the discovery. But now it turns out that, again, the professors hate to even think about this, but it turns out that we have our intrinsic enzymes that will turn RNA to DNA, exactly what Lamarckism would say we needed if we're going to adapt to the world and become what we intend to be. These physical adaptations that we make can be recorded in the genes if we have reverse transcriptase enzymes to turn RNA into DNA. Oh, so let me stop you for a second. So if I understand then, as soul, spiritual beings in these bodies because of our state of consciousness and lifestyle, we mainly affect the RNA and not the DNA, but it's shown that the RNA can work backwards, not like you were taught, and that's why epigenetics works. Is that close? Yeah, that's why the whole idea of epigenetics, first it was impossible, then it was only an event that was temporary in the cytoplasm for the moment, then, well, maybe it was passed on to your offspring, and then maybe four generations and so on. So the whole idea of epigenetics has taken about 50 years to get established halfway. Yes, and so when we come into this reality... Do our DNA and RNA carry different things that may be from grandma and grandpa and stuff? Oh, they're probably working on it. Definitely we carry the experiences back to probably our great-grandparents in animal experiments. You can see it for four or five generations consistently of how well they ate, for example. Yes. So just because great-grandpa, though, had a heart issue, it doesn't mean we have to, as many of the doctors believe, just simply by changing our lifestyle. Good experiences you have will erase the bad experiences. How does that work? Good experiences? That's interesting. Erase the bad experiences. The injury that happened to your grandparents, for example, will cause changes in their hormones, and their hormones will affect their reproductive cells. And this, incidentally, brings in the exosome virus-like particle thing. Darwin called them gemules, in which the changes that happen genetically in our body cells are floating around in the body, getting into our germ cells. But anyway, empirically, what we've seen demonstrated in the last 40 years is that changes do happen, at least in the hormones, if not in the exosomes. But the hormonal changes cause the germ cells to be a little different, and then the fertilization of these slightly altered germ cells. The organism is implanted in the uterus, and the mother's hormonal and metabolic constitution is shaping the organism all during its nine months of development. And so, inherited from her parents, her metabolic abilities are influencing the developmental metabolic abilities of the offspring. So it's all on the level of fluids and hormones and things that have been known for over 100 years. These are very obviously going to affect how the pregnancy turns out. And so that means that you can intervene in the pregnancy, make the pregnancy happier and healthier, and of all things, don't shock the immune system of the pregnant woman. But CDC advocates giving flu vaccine, for example, to pregnant women, a murderously insane idea. Any kind of immunological shock increases autism risk, for example. Interesting. So these exosomes you talked about, they have been spoken about by people around the world since this whole thing started. And they were saying that they were identifying a virus that looks just like these exosomes. Can you explain that a little bit and what's going on there? Is that true? All of them look a little bit different, so you can't say they look exactly like them. But the particles, the exosomes are roughly a tenth of a micron, more or less the size of a flu or COVID virus or thousands of other types of viruses. So in terms of size and the fact that as a rule, not always they'll have some RNA, maybe a little bit of DNA in them, and proteins, hormones, the material, generally our exosomes are carrying information from a sick cell to a bone marrow cell, for example, signaling the need for some repair material, some cells to be manufactured to replace injured cells. And so the bone marrow differentiates in the direction of the information it got from the injured cells, exosomes, and puts out cells which know how to migrate to the area that was injured, the lung or the kidney or wherever, it sends in repair cells. And the repair cells, it happens that cancer is always sending out signals for help to repair the wound, and they found that even when they cut out the cancer or poison it out or irradiate it out, the wound area still or even more so sends out alarm signals that it needs repair cells, so somewhere else in the body, like the bone marrow, produces repair cells which migrate in, but now the wound site has been horribly injured, new kinds of inflammation creating problems for the tumor-removed area, so the new cells arriving there experience even worse conditions than the removed cells did, so it means that whenever you destroy a cancer, you haven't destroyed the conditions in that area, so that area is very likely to produce new cancers. Yes, so that's why we see the numbers and oftentimes people who do nothing, no chemo, do even better than folks that do that. Is that the argument you've just made? Yeah, and there's very few studies that have looked at the people who chose not to have any therapy found that they lived much longer than the people who immediately went to have the cancer removed. Fascinating. So do we then share if these exosomes are information on how to, are they actually information to help us all evolve, and do we share these exosomes? That has been theorized as the only plausible source of where viruses could come from. Because a virus lives only in a higher organism, so definitely viruses didn't evolve as an independent pest, they had to come from a higher organism. So now that we know that higher organisms create their own virus-like particles, it's only plausible to assume that viruses are derived from these normal exosomes. That if a very sick animal is spreading its particles around, and another organism remotely related organism picks up these sick particles, then its organism, if it isn't in very good health itself, these sick particles might further derange the cells of a sick organism. So the whole idea is plausible that exosomes from sick animals can make other animals sick. I just splashed on the idea, Dr. B, maybe that's why many animals go off on their own to die. Yeah, I think that is kind of intuitive, native knowledge. Just to save the tribe, huh? No sense. So this corona thing, I mean... It's just a coronavirus that's been around and to your opinion, do you think it's any different or I still don't understand where it came from and it's just going to keep going. I mean, you don't kill something like this, right? A virus just... Explain. The coronavirus type is very common and people have been dying from it for who knows how long, a really bad cold in a person who is otherwise weak or sick. A really bad cold has been killing people forever just because it causes inflammation that their body can't deal with. I think there has been some political maneuvering connected with the military research, germ warfare research that Richard Nixon supposedly terminated in 1969. Those labs which had been devoted to creating viruses and bacteria that were especially lethal, they were told to stop producing biological weapons, but immediately almost they went to producing the same organisms but saying we need to do this because enemies might do it and we need to create defenses. So we have to invent any horrible thing that someone else might invent as a weapon so that, for example, we can test vaccines against it. So there was no end to the military germ warfare. They just renamed it as vaccine research. And one of our major vaccine research labs continuing this military biological warfare research was Ralph Berrick's group at the University of North Carolina. And under his name in PubMed, you can find several articles describing the manufacture of viruses of this type and how they picked out a lethal part from another virus, such as the spike protein, which binds to and inactivates our angiotensin receptor, angiotensin 1. I'm not sure the numbers are so many subdivisions, but anyway, it binds to our defensive angiotensin degrading enzyme. And the activation of inflammation in the body, activating the angiotensin system by knocking out the enzyme that degrades the inflammatory enzyme, that is the chosen mechanism, not only for the natural virus, but chosen because it is such a destructive, dangerous feature of a virus. So it was picked out in the Berrick lab as a feature to put into their synthetic virus. And other particular nucleotides in the RNA chain were manipulated, one or two nucleotide changes at a time to improve the ability of the virus to infect human cells. I saw these articles were still up on the internet, so there was no question that a virus of this type had been a project for years. And then a few years ago, the CDC closed down Fort Detrick, the main famous germ warfare lab, because they had had over a thousand accidents. And it was in the news that they were closing the lab because of its lack of clean behavior of exposing the environment to their toxic viruses. That was in the newspaper, and for them to be so public as well as so sloppy, I think was a propaganda operation to convince the Chinese. Who had no doubt about all of this stuff which had been in the news for 40 years that the US was working on Biological warfare so with all of this public publicity coming out in recent years obviously the Chinese would be very sensitive to Taking instant precautions of an exaggerated search if they thought the Americans were actually Spilling this horribly lethal virus and that it might get spilled into China So I think it was propaganda intended to get the Chinese to put out a Historically huge reaction to a virus which they got under control in a few weeks but Having that as an example in the news that China shut down the whole country then that news they had created with this publicity over preceding two or three years at that was the example for realizing the plans of the World Economic Forum which had been talked about in and planned for like the event 201 was They were planning for this and so they created the international Staged theatrical Defensive reaction of China and said look what they did we have to do the same so even without any evidence of Actually, how many people were dying from it and actually how effective it was just what China reported The whole thing came into place the program that had been designed years Previously and now everyone was trained to put it into practice lockdowns The whole whole campaign to sell vaccines to everyone in the world Fascinating an interesting story. Dr. Ray Pete Patrick Timpone one radio network calm So before we go to the calls and we'll take a quick break before the calls But by the way, if you'd like to ask, dr. Peter question, he doesn't do medical advice We can't do a lot here, but at least he can maybe lead you in the right direction Save you some time on some issue that you're having. We have a lot of good questions already. We'll get to as many as we can but Back to the vaccine and this idea that is actually putting genetic material in which many are arguing that are it's never really been done before. I mean what what risk could this pose for people that are taking this vaccine? Oh, you asked me that? Yes, sir. Yeah, it's the shock to the system is the first thing. The two nurses in England who on the first day developed anaphylaxis, they had been they had a history of allergies. But Pfizer or whoever their vaccine was made by didn't announce to the world that people who had allergies shouldn't take it. They had excluded allergic people from their test subjects. So naturally there was absolutely no evidence of safety if they excluded. Allergic people and old people and who knows how many other categories were excluded from the test samples? That was an obligatory bit of information that should have been announced to the world last Monday when vaccine was announced as a finished thing. But they said, well, yes, we did exclude allergic people. And immediately an official in the FDA said, but there are 1.6 million profoundly allergic people in the United States. That's a very large number. We can't exclude that many from receiving the vaccine. So according to the FDA, the Pfizer policy of not testing it on allergic people and then giving it to people with a history of allergy was perfectly all right because that was an appropriate risk. Safety testing has never been done like that. It's really fraudulent. And the article was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. People have analyzed it showing that the article didn't resemble at all the way an announcement of a new drug or product should be handled. It was like a public relations advertising bit. Thank you. And it went with an editorial, not by an expert who could evaluate the Pfizer report, but the editorial was written by the editor-in-chief. of New England Journal of Medicine, whose magazine receives advertising money and major support from Pfizer. And this editor was on the FDA committee voting to approve it. So there was sort of a conspiracy all the way from advertising money through the medical journal announcement and the approval of it in the FDA. And then the FDA is saying it's all right no matter what it does to people. Is there a potential then for long-term effects 2, 3, 5, 10 years from now that we would have no idea of knowing? Yeah, not only the damage done to the immune system, which has its repercussions depending on how basic the injury was, but being RNA and even our own DNA replicating RNA, and being RNA and even our own DNA replicating enzymes, what we need for every cell to reproduce and to produce offspring. The DNA replicase enzyme happens to have the ability to function as a reverse transcriptase, able to transcribe RNA into DNA, making basically genes out of this bit of viral RNA, which can go into the genes, and the person can then become a factory for making the spike protein. This uniquely inflammation-promoting bit of information producing the viral protein, multiplying it endlessly by possibly all of our cells, so we would not only produce increasing amounts as our body went through its normal restoration and growth processes, but being spreadable by our secretions and passed on to our offspring if people should live that long. And so there could be then some validity to the idea that some are concerned about the potential issue of making women less fertile with this thing, if they figured it out right. Yeah, that particular thing was based on the fact that there was a lot of evidence that there was a similarity between an enzyme in the vaccine and the enzyme which creates the placenta, which happens to be just a structurally similar protein. That created doubt and suspicions that any sensible person would want to check it out. But instead of checking it out, they called it a conspiracy theory. So it's not a big stretch if folks explore the idea of eugenics and some very bad people that think there's too many people on the planet. It's not a huge stretch to say that this vaccine is part of that. Yeah, you shouldn't even have to be a suspicious person to want to check out all of the things that could possibly eliminate the species or a big part of it. You know, in vaccines there's this idea of shedding where the kids that get vaccinated actually can be more dangerous than the unvaccinated because they throw off stuff. Could it be possible that the vaccinated people for Corona could throw off stuff that you and I wouldn't want to be exposed to? Yeah, because that RNA is put in there to be copied. So those should be the ones with the dangerous passports and not the non-vaxxed people. But before we go, though, this is key. So I want to get your take. You know, there's people like Cowan, Kaufman, David Parker, others who suggest that the virus idea, you know, the germ theory is structurally incoherent because they have proven that you can take snot and saliva from somebody with something and give it to another person. And it doesn't work. It only works in the petri dish. If you take it out of a petri dish where you have a big concentration and drip it into someone's nose while they're lying down, it's a pretty repeatable process. But not necessarily person to person. No, it's pretty hard to spread a cold from person to person, but the fact that you can do it, I don't think you should go around saying that the whole idea doesn't work. If you've ever seen a cold sore passed on in a family, you know that viruses are real. Right, a cold sore is always, but you can touch it, you know, like a herpes virus and you have, and so viruses are real, they're there. But when you say, when you say it's difficult to even share a cold or flu virus. Yeah, they've put one very sick person with a cold into a room to play cards for several hours, passing things back and forth with a bunch of healthy people, and that almost never goes across. You have to be receptive, so the terrain theory is the basic thing, but you can't forget that things like herpes virus are super easy to transmit with just the slightest break in the skin, for example, doesn't even have to be a visible wound. So then that would play as well as for STDs. STDs, sexually transmitted diseases, the same thing because you're actually making contact to the mucosis, right? Yeah, Epstein, Barr, and lots of the contact viruses, and the experiments show that with extreme effort, putting a concentrated batch of viruses derived from one person, if you put them right into the upper nasal membrane, it will catch on a fair amount of the time. It'll catch on a fair amount of the time, but passing stuff to somebody who's two feet away from you, are you saying it's pretty rare? Yeah, in one experiment they put a dye in a person's runny nose. They put a what? A colored agent into their nose and then had them play cards, and the dye was transmitted to everyone in the card game, but no one caught the virus. So then that brings us back to social distancing and all that and lockdowns and masking. There's real no science behind any of it, is there? Absolutely no science. Wow, wow, man. Giving vitamin D is probably the single most functional thing. Vitamin D, vitamin A, adequate protein and carbohydrate and everything, but vitamin D is probably the main deficiency leading to epidemics. So are you a fan then, if folks can't get sun on their skin, to take supplemental D during the time when they can't get sun? Oh, definitely. In the higher latitudes, the wind or sun doesn't make any vitamin D to count, and we need probably 5,000 international units a day is good for adults. If a person is overweight, it might take more than that, but the idea, the so-called research done medically has used doses of things like 500 milligrams, 500 units instead of 5,000 units, and then they say, oh, vitamin D didn't do anything to strengthen their bones or improve their immunity or reduce inflammation. You have to actually get their serum vitamin D up, and it has to be the kind of vitamin D that's the same as made in your skin by the sunlight and developed in your liver, and not the 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol, which is called the activated vitamin D is what they call that one, but we only activate ordinary vitamin D into the dihydroxycholecalciferol under stress. If we're deficient in vitamin D, the curative anti-inflammatory material, our body suddenly starts converting any trace of it to a very small amount of 1,25-dihydroxy, and that happens to do all kinds of destructive calcification things. So if you hear about the toxic vitamin A, it's almost always because they're talking about active vitamin A, but if you take enough calcium in your diet and the normal amount of sunlight exposure or vitamin D from even fish oil is usually an adequate source. If you take calcium and that kind of environmentally derived vitamin D, you'll have extremely low activated vitamin D. Activated vitamin D is the dangerous one. And is that the one that shows up on a test when you test for vitamin D? If the doctor does the wrong thing, if he's a kidney expert, he's likely to do the wrong thing. Okay, but generally the one that they test for the vitamin D is okay. Yeah, it's called 25-hydroxy. 25-hydroxy. You mentioned the sun. So like here in Texas, if I get out in the sun, I'm at an altitude where I'm getting D in December? Yeah, in the winter, the summer, the sun is a little weaker, but in Texas, in a couple of hours, you're getting a moderate dose of vitamin D. In what areas would our listeners not get the vitamin D on their skin in December that they won't? For example, at the latitude of Oregon, even San Francisco, I think the sun is so weak right now that you could sit in it for eight hours. You still don't get it, huh? Is there any risk of having too much of the supplemental vitamin D getting too much? Are there any side effects? In experiments, either by accident or in animal experiments, people have occasionally, for confusion, taken maybe a quarter of a million units per day, and doing that for a matter of weeks, they do start showing signs of calcification. But if they stop in time, it isn't the extreme danger that it was made out to be when they insisted that 200 units a day was okay for kids and 400 for adults. But now 5,000 units, if somebody's taking 10 or 20, probably no issues with that if they wanted to take it. Yeah, I've known quite a few people who weren't getting their blood level up on 5,000 or 6,000 units a day, so they took for just a couple of weeks, they would take 10,000 or 20,000 units and suddenly their blood level would come up to normal and their symptoms would generally just suddenly disappear. Weakness, body pains, depression. R-R-R-Rumatoid. Symptoms just respond amazingly when you actually get your 25-hydroxy level up in your bloodstream. And if you had a number that folks could look for, what would that be on that 25-hydroxy on the blood test? On the nanogram scale, it's about 50 mg per milliliter. That's the main thing they use. So that's the D. If folks need to make sure they're getting A, are you okay with some high-quality fish oil? Not fish oil, but liver oil. Now what's the difference? Do you mean cod liver oil? Yeah, cod liver or halibut liver oil is you get lots of vitamin D and A in a small amount of oil, but in fish oil you get only the tiniest trace of vitamins. It accidentally gets in there when the whole fish is squashed. Could you take a good high-quality cod liver oil ongoing without any ill effects with the yellow fat and all the lipofuscin and stuff? I don't advocate it, but if it's your only source of vitamin D and A naturally, it'll save your life. But still, it's better not to have the chronic intake. Too much, yeah, too much. And the foods with D and A? Oh, liver, any chicken liver, beef, any kind of liver is a great source of not only A and D, also K, all of the nutrients. The only problem with liver is it's very high in iron and very high in phosphate. And so I don't think you should eat more than one good serving of liver per week because you can chronically overload on some of the over-concentrated nutrients. And we've been told that many of us have too much iron running around anyway because they put it in the food. Is that right? Yeah, but one serving of iron per week won't hurt you unless you're eating red meat twice a day or something. Yeah, yeah. And you tell me a serving could be four to six ounces, something like that, would we do you up? Yeah, four ounces is a pretty filling amount of liver. Yeah, it is. Well, stay right there, sir. Boy, this has been for a great first time. We may want to keep you, can we keep you just a little bit longer today, is that okay? Oh, sure. Oh, good, because we have lots of emails and our first part has already been an hour, so we'll impose upon the good doctor for a bit. We're pretty excited about a sale that's going on today only on SirThrival, 21% in observance of the winter solstice, December 21. Today only, today only 21% site-wide, everything on SirThrival. So jump on it if you want to get some products. Use promo code INFINITE, I-N-F-I-N-I-T-E. So that's everything, everything they have. Let's do the pine pollen first. We're talking with Daniel Vitalis of SirThrival. Is there a benefit to using the elk velvet antler and the pine pollen together? Yeah, they really enhance each other's effect and they don't have any contraindications. So both of them nourish and feed anabolic pathways, but in different ways. The pine pollen adds direct testosterone and other anabolic hormones into the body. The elk antler helps to fine tune the metabolism and feeds in all that connective tissue enhancing collagen that helps to feed and build up the body at the same time it helps to increase lean body mass. The two together would be your optimal nature-based formula. For both bodybuilding, for youthening, for anti-aging, and for anybody who's looking to keep their body in a youthful, anabolic, vigorous, and elastic state. Is it fair to say they're both tonics, so they can be used every day? Yeah, both pine pollen and elk antler are tonic medicines. In other words, they don't have any contraindications of use, and they don't have to be cycled on and off. So somebody could use them short-term, but they could also use them long-term without worrying that they're overdosing themselves on them, because like you said, they're tonic medicines. Every day, in every way, let's just get stronger. Boys and girls. Yeah, you bet. And boy, this would be a great time if you'd like to try the Pine Pollen. I just ran downstairs to get some water. If you'd like to get some Pine Pollen. And I ran! It's a great time to do it promo code INFINITE today only the 21st of December 25 21% and then you might want to try their vitamin D K3 product. So we have like right at 5,000 units per serving non-GMO manufactured with their extreme care. Look at the, listen to the ingredients. See if I can find them here. The D3 from Lanolin, K2 is from Natto, which is a traditional Japanese fermented food, and that's it. So you've got the vitamin D, K2, or K3, what do they call it, vitamin D, K2, Daylight. And it's only 29 bucks, and you get a nice supply, and you can buy a couple bottles and get 21% off, today, with promo code, uh. Infinite. Pretty cool, huh? Have you heard about hydrogen? If you're thinking about, uh, well, check this out for an investment. Hydrogen technology is pretty exciting. This is George. Many people have said and we concur that the number one investment we should make is in our health. Here's George Wiseman. Last caller, I'm sorry, I didn't remember his name, said an investment. And this is really the investment kind of thing that you need to do. Not my machine specifically. I think I sell the world's best machine and I do my best to maintain it and support the customers and everything. But regardless of who you get it from, you really should invest in your health. How are you going to enjoy life if you haven't got health? How are you going to fulfill that bucket list? So number one on the bucket list should be your health and then you get some extra years. I say this thing not only adds years to your life because the science is showing a 30 to 50% life extension. So I'm expecting to go to the 120 150 years old and help a lot of people between now and then. But it also adds life to your years. There's no sense living in your last decade of life if you're in a hospital bed on attached to machines. You know what I mean? Throwing a frisbee and having fun. It's so true, isn't it? Boy, if we don't feel good and have the energy to do what we need to do, I mean, what's the point? And here's an investment with a lifetime warranty and also a one year, no questions asked, money back guarantee if you don't want it. Check out this AquaCure machine, bubbling hydrogen gas, drinking it, breathing it. This is real cutting edge technology. Check it out in our store. Use promo code ONERADIO for a 10% discount. The AquaCure Browns Gas Machine. OneRadioNetwork.com. And if you're clever and you figure out how to write it off on your taxes, which, got a good tax person, they could figure it out. Trust me, I don't do tax advice. But you get one before the end of the year, and just kind of get one. These are great. Use promo code ONERADIO. You can go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.com and look at peer-reviewed studies from around the world. Lots going on in China, Japan, with all kinds of pretty interesting stories with helping people to recover from strokes, breathing the hydrogen. Our machine is Brown's Gas, which is just a step up from just pure hydrogen. Check it out. OneRadioNetwork.com. We are listener supported. OneRadioNetwork. Well, we've had quite a first hour with Dr. Ray Peet. Thanks for being here, sir. Ray Peet, it is DrPeet.com. You can do Dr. Peet's newsletter at DrPeet'snewsletteratgmail.com, right? And get your newsletter? Right. That's good. And you put that out every couple of months, huh? Two months, yeah. Every two months. Well, let's get to some emails for you, Doc. So here's one. So kissing someone vaccinated with an RNA virus can spread the exosomes from the vaccine by horizontal genetics? That's great. I think that's a real possibility. Wow, man. So now we'll be on, you know, dating sites and say, you know, instead of wanting people who have been vaccinated, right, to get people that haven't been vaccinated. Yeah, that's great, man. Only on planet Earth, Doc. How about, would you please ask Dr. Pete, is the table sugar processed with phosphoric acid for refinement better than the one processed with sulfur? Hmm. What kind of sugar is that? Table sugar. Table sugar processed with phosphoric acid for refinement better than the one processed with sulfur. Sulfur is a much more allogenic material that in trace amounts has the ability to cause allergic reactions. And trace amounts of phosphoric acid are almost always harmless. Down at the threshold where you can't taste them, sulfur has the risk of increasing allergies. Okay. Thank you for acting, Dr. Pete, on your show. I have a question for him. What is the significance of the optic nerve cup to disc ratio, CD ratio, and can it be brought back into normal diagnosis of glaucoma? The word is cuff. I'm sorry? C-U-F-F was the word. What is the significance of the optic nerve cup? Cup, C-U-P. Oh, cup, cup. Oh, I think cup represents dead tissue that is atrophied. And so it... determines or expresses how much of the nerve is gone. So I would guess that the cup is a bad indicator. Do you have any suggestions? We get so many emails with folks that are beginning to get cataracts over the years. It's a pretty, very popular kind of a challenge. What do you think about it, the cause and some things people can do? We're talking about the eyes here. By putting an animal lens with a cataract into a culture dish, they have found that it's responsive to the osmolarity of the solution. That a watery solution expands a cataract and a slightly over-concentrated solution can... regress a cataract and inflammation generally... creates a watery low osmolarity solution that contributes. The cataract itself becomes opaque because the cells take up more water than normal and in that process they're losing not only their transparency but their resilience. Proteins in the cell are like egg white. When it's cooked, it's opaque and firm. When it's functional and alive and clear, the water is in a special state. Things that damage the cell's ultraviolet light or too much estrogen, for example, are things that will change the state of water in the cell, make it over hydrated, hardened and opaque. So keeping systemic inflammation low, avoiding the things that tend to water larger tissues, all of those reduce the progress of cataracts. And incidentally, lots and lots of optometrists are now exaggerating the language they're telling people they have developing cataracts when what they're really seeing is just a normal yellowing and browning of the lens with aging. An old yellowed or browned lens can still be very clear. It's not a cataract. It's just the change of color with aging. A cataract is a more or less focal spot where the cells turn white and become opaque as they take up too much water in the wrong arrangement. Interesting. Linda's in Michigan. Dear Patrick, I looked for you on MeWe, couldn't find you. Just do Patrick Timpone on MeWe and you'll find us. Could you please ask Dr. Pete if he would think what could a pillow... that's infused with silver, could that be a beneficial effect on protecting from EMFs? Wow. Doing what with silver? Or a silver-infused pillow? Oh, no, I think the conductor has to be between you and the source of the EMF, so you can get curtains with embedded wire filaments, silver or copper or whatever, and if you have a telephone tower visible through your window, and you put a big drape over the window, and maybe over any of the wall between you and the tower, that is protective. David is in Atlanta, Georgia, listening this morning, or watching, whatever. Dr. Pete, you've said that metabolism and epigenetic damage causes baldness. My metabolism has improved, but I'm still bald, so how can I undo the epigenetic damage and grow some hair? The tissue, once it's damaged, has changed its structure and laid down a lot of collagen and fiber cells, and so the examples of people who have gone from complete baldness to regrowing a good crop of hair, it has usually involved some kind of shock. To the tissue that activates repair processes that will actively clean out some of the fibrous tissue, probably massage would be the best bet to activate the fibrous tissue, but the cells are doing like putting a niacin or something that simply causes a local inflammation. Not niacinamide, but the the one that makes the skin turn red. That sort of thing creating a mild inflammation. One old guy fell on his head in the fireplace and seriously burned his scalp and that area when it healed was producing hair. So it takes some kind of activation, getting circulation back into it to actively remove the fibrous tissue and let germ cells or the stem cells that make hair recover. An important part of that is to make sure that your parathyroid hormone is down at the lower end of the normal range because you're getting enough calcium and vitamin D in your diet and not too much phosphate. Eating a lot of meat, the phosphate is constantly pushing up your parathyroid hormone and the parathyroid hormone is turning down metabolism in your hair follicle. Oh, I see. So, but just to the original, there's actually some physical issues going on with the bald, the guys, the bald guys, so the hair can't even pop out. You said there could be different ways to scrub it or I don't know. Yeah, you know, effectively rubbing it every day. Rubbing it every day. That's right. That might work. That's pretty interesting. Okay, here's one, Sophie. She's in Jacksonville, Florida. Dr. P, what are your thoughts on cactus fruit like prickly pear and dragon fruit? Some research says that they have high calcium to phosphate ratio. The main thing is, they're delicious foods. And growing in the desert, they do tend to have lots of minerals. In some of the traditional areas of Mexico, they cook down the prickly pear fruit, make a mush of it, and then concentrate it, and it's one of the most delicious candies I've ever tasted. Is that right? It's just full of, of minerals, calcium and magnesium, in a very, very pleasant taste. And the young tender leaves themselves, if you slice them up, they're a very pleasant vegetable, very nutritious. You've often mentioned the idea that even for animals, and like dogs, which are carnivores, that too much meat without enough calcium is an issue. Same for people, right? Dogs. Too much meat, and we need more calcium than real calcium with bones? Yeah, in the wild, animals tend to eat the small bones, like a carnivore eats a chicken. They aren't going to spit out many of the bones, because they can crush them and get the marrow out, and so on, so they're getting lots of calcium in a normal diet. Interesting. And the calcium, then, that ratio you suggested affects the thyroid, right? Can make the thyroid not work as well. Well, that's a consequence, but the first thing is the parathyroidism. That's a consequence, but the first thing is the parathyroid hormone increases under the influence of too much phosphate, or not enough calcium. And the parathyroid hormone is what turns on the activated vitamin D, the harmful part of the vitamin D system, and it turns off cellular energy production. Not only in the hair follicle, but in the thyroid gland and muscles. Everything gets weak and tends to get inflamed if you have too much parathyroid hormone, and phosphate is the main thing in excess that will drive your parathyroid hormone too high. Interesting. There's a lot of very natural breeders that have been using the whole chicken raw for dogs for a long time, and they do very well on it, because I guess they're eating all the bones, too. Yep. Dear Dr. Pete, this is Susan in Tennessee. Is glycerin okay to use topically? Glycerin topically? Yeah, I think it is okay topically. You don't want to take it orally because part of the effect of stress is to release fat from storage and every molecule of triglyceride involves a glycerin molecule. And glycerin, even from our natural tissue stores, a certain amount of it converts to methylglyoxal, which is a toxin and which adds to the protein glycation, the aging process. So you definitely don't want to ingest glycerin and I wouldn't use it copiously on the skin because a little bit of it might get absorbed. We're talking with Dr. Ray Peete, he's here on the third Monday of the month, One Radio Network. You can check out other videos we've done with Dr. Peete on One Radio Network, look for the video section and also in the archives, all of the audio shows are there. His website is raypeete.com and you can send him an email, raypeetes, a plural, newsletter at gmail.com and sign up for his terrific newsletter, comes out every couple of months. Dr. Peete, do you have much experience with using for different things a DMSO? Oh yeah, I was very interested in it in the mid, late sixties. Then I had a series of experiences in which it was producing inflammation and that sort of discouraged me. My interest in it, besides it produces a bad taste in your mouth if you just get it on your skin and it can easily take impurities into your skin with it and so the question of getting an absolutely pure substance in itself is hard enough, but then if you just introduce a trace of contaminant along with it, it can penetrate. I mean you could actually, people have said you could use some maybe DMSO and something else on your feet and put on a sock and if it has dye in there, that would draw that in. You have to be careful with that stuff. I did a sauna, I like to do a sauna with a little bit of DMSO and castor oil and just let it on my stomach and I did one the other night and I just got over, I don't know, over abundant with the DMSO and Dr. Pete, I have to tell you, my stomach burned on the outside. I actually burnt it for about two or three days. I mean it's been itching and it's finally going away. That stuff can burn you, right? I was seeing that happen frequently around 1970 and so I lost interest in using it. I have to be careful with this stuff. Here is an email from Trent. If low cell oxygen can result in cancer, will antioxidants such as vitamin E or vitamin C promote the growth of cancer? Actually, cancer produces its own powerful reductants and antioxidants, and a big change that has been happening in the last 10 years is realizing that vitamin C, when it's working in a healthy cell, is a pro-oxidant. The reductant antioxidant form of it is not. It's not what's doing most of the benefit. It's the catalytic support of the oxidative systems that makes vitamin C useful. Vitamin E has its oxidative phase. The things you find in orange juice, fruits, and vegetables, the polyphenols, nobiletin. Phycetan, for example, these have been historically classified as antioxidants, but actually they shift the cell pro-oxidative processes, protect against the excess reduction, the opposite of oxidation that goes with stress and that is characteristic of cancer. The cancer metabolism is stuck. in an over-reductive antioxidant condition. Here's an email from Ellen, interesting, my sister chose to do chemotherapy for cancer and she's incredibly nauseous, can barely eat any kind of food. Can you recommend some kind of foods or drinks that I could share with her so she could get something down? Moderately salty chicken broth is historically one of the best things. The broth is a complex mixture that doesn't do anything irritating, but it has to be moderately salted because if there's too much water, that in itself creates inflammation in the digestive system. So the natural fluids, the right concentration of a salted broth or milk or orange juice which are more or less balanced solutions, those are all supportive of healing, anti-inflammatory, promote oxidative healing processes. And so these chemicals, do they damage the mucosa of the stomach causing nausea or what's going on? Yeah, chemotherapy is killing cells in proportion to how fast they grow and your stomach line lining is probably the fastest growing other than parts of your immune system. The stomach lining is turning over every two days roughly, and so if you kill the fast growing cells, that's how a lethal dose of ionizing radiation, for example, kills people by burning out the lining of their stomach, of their intestine. The chemical therapy does the same thing. It kills cells in proportion to how fast they're replicating, assuming the cancer is always fast growing, but very often a tumor is slow growing but still determined to go down the wrong pathway even though it isn't dividing very fast. So the ordinary radiation and chemotherapy are going to hurt your intestinal cells much more than they hurt the cancer if it's slow growing. On the vitamin C, do I recall that you're not a big fan of using just ascorbic acid or sodium ascorbate? Yeah, because of that reduction, it's a powerful reductant and what you want to do is get it into your cells in an oxidized form without pushing the growth of cancer cells, for example, for starting a process of inflammation. Once it gets into the cells, about 80% of vitamin C is in the form of dehydroascorbate and that means that eating meat, the animal's vitamin C that it makes is in all of its tissues, including the muscles, and at least 70 to 85% of it will be in the invisible oxidized form, DHA. And so when you're eating meat, you're taking in lots of vitamin C and still the official Department of Agriculture charts don't show any vitamin C content for meat, even though Amundsen, was that his name? The Arctic Explorer showed that they did fine if they ate meat all winter, didn't get scurvy. How many oranges would we need a day to get plenty of vitamin C? Oh, the anti-scurvy dose is only about one orange a day is enough, but for general health it's fine to eat 20 a day. You can eat a lot of oranges. Is there a benefit to eating the whole orange rather than juicing it? Not if it's a commercially grown orange. The toxins pretty much stick on peel, so you don't want to make marmalade out of anything but a clean, organic orange. But organic orange, you eat the whole thing, is it more beneficial than juicing? Well, when you cook it in a marmalade, it is very beneficial, but once I heard that when I was about 16 or 17 and tried eating a whole orange, it's very irritating to the stomach. I couldn't keep it down. Fascinating how cooking some things really make them more powerful. Yeah, it releases the actually valuable nutrients and degrades some of the irritants. That would be true in things like kale, collards, cauliflower? Yeah, leaves are very full of irritants intended to interfere with animals' digestion, aimed primarily at worms and herbivores. But when we eat them, they have specific enzyme inhibitors that will decrease the nutritional value, but when you cook it, some of those are degraded and so it's a lot safer to eat well-cooked vegetables. Kale is a good food? Kale? Yeah, as a source of vitamin K in particular, calcium, magnesium. Would you ask Dr. Pete, this is from Helen in Australia, approach to dealing with uterine fibroids, especially when they have grown so much that they are putting pressure on the colon and my bladder. Wow. Yeah, having a blood test is important to check your thyroid estrogen and vitamin D. Calcium and vitamin D are recognized as very important anti-fibroid factors along with thyroid. One outstanding example I think illustrates what thyroid can do. A woman in her early 40s had a child and wanted to, but she had a big fibroid blocking the top of her uterus, blocking both fallopian tubes. I explained how thyroid lowers estrogen while increasing the activity of enzymes that can break down fibrotic tissue. Anyway, she took... What her doctor said was a very dangerous overdose of thyroid, kept her heart rate beating at rest 110 beats per minute. That was in the spring. She had an ultrasound every month and saw visible shrinking, so she stayed with it through the summer. And by... I think it was September or October, she was pregnant. Is that right? That the tumor had shrunken visibly every month. uh... just by uh... keeping her estrogen uh... under control by uh... keeping uh... steadily uh... slightly above average thyroid activity interesting is as just uh... has erythromycin how do you say that a-z-i-t-h safe dan wants to know uh... what about it is it safe to take oh i think it is i've used erythromycin which is uh... the the original uh... form uh... they're they're very similar uh... they both have the uh... extra virtue of being anti-inflammatory and somewhat pro-propulsion of the intestine uh... so people who are having intestinal problems uh... notice that the inflammation goes down and uh... the tendency to uh... uh... reverse peristalsis. uh... uh... reflux during the night or constipation uh... the erythromycin acts as a mild laxity keeping the intestine going in the right direction rather than coming up into the throat. And why does it go, why does it, what's the causes of it coming back the other way and causing heartburn and other stuff? Uh... uh... the uh... during the night uh... excitation increases uh... uh... from the blood sugar going down uh... and uh... this generalized uh... inflammation uh... against a background of low thyroid. Uh... uh... the thyroid uh... keeps the peristalsis uh... running in the normal direction uh... uh... from top to bottom. Uh... when that gets confused and uh... you get random uh... centers of irritation and inflammation uh... inflammation uh... just below your stomach for example start a wave of peristalsis moving through your stomach and up your esophagus carrying stomach contents or even lower intestinal contents into your mouth. Uh... a medical professor uh... in the nineteen twenties experimented on his medical students uh... putting a an indicator uh... an indigestible particles uh... that is very easy to recognize under the uh... microscope. He put a little uh... dollop of this in the rectums of all of his medical students and then in the morning had them take a swab of saliva and put it under the microscope and all of those who had morning breath found the particles that had been inserted the night before. Whoa. Uh... showing the reverse peristalsis even in healthy young people it is very common uh... and it shows up most often as simply bad breath in the morning. Reverse peristalsis. Go figure. Here's someone that's chronically underweight they say despite eating high calorie foods filled with carbohydrates, fats and protein um... and um... I'm experiencing low thyroid uh... so could the related low thyroid be the cause of this? Yeah over the years I've talked to I think three or four uh... young middle aged men uh... twenties and thirties early forties who uh... were eating maybe four thousand calories a day uh... and still weighed only a hundred and thirty five or a hundred and forty five pounds just couldn't put on any muscle. Uh... and my own experience was that uh... through my late teens and twenties uh... I ate gigantic amounts produced huge amounts of heat and steam uh... but stayed uh... at the same weight uh... a hundred and sixty five or seventy uh... and uh... as soon as I experimented taking thyroid my caloric requirement decreased by thirty or forty percent. Uh... and I suddenly was able to put on weight uh... and so I mentioned uh... thyroid supplements to these men uh... each one of them uh... had the same experience immediately they were able to put on weight that's because thyroid is our basic anabolic hormone. Uh... that was published in uh... endocrine textbooks uh... eighty years ago uh... a picture of uh... people who had experienced removal of their thyroid gland without replacement of a thyroid supplement. Uh... they wasted away uh... it was called the cachexia uh... the wasting disease caused by thyroid deprivation. Interesting. I mentioned to you in an email, I was going to try the Sino Plus, my TSH is up a little, and I ordered it from Mexico, and it ended up with the FDA in Chicago, and it's held in a ransom. It's a shame that they've done that. Maybe it's just a one-off thing, I hope. Have you heard anybody else of that happening too? Um, just occasionally. Okay. It was probably just a, you know, bad, bad karma for Patrick, but uh... I think it's like a lottery. Yeah, it's like a lottery. You just take your... pays your money, you take your chances. A few more here. Um, oh Stella, this is interesting. Uh, could you please ask Dr. Pete, I'm in my twenties, struggling with self-pleasuring for five years, since been with someone, wondering what I can do to control sexual urges and desires. I'm suffering. Wow. Interesting. Um, having hormone tests as part of it, the ability to get satisfaction, uh, is an essential part of the sexual response. Uh, arousal is a big part, but satisfaction is the end of it. And that, thyroid and related hormones are essential parts of that. So if the thyroid is out of balance, that can make other things be out of balance. Uh, yeah. The estrogen goes up in relation to progesterone and the androgens. And estrogen is the gadfly that creates arousal. But progesterone and the androgen and thyroid are the things that create the energy process that gives satisfaction. I see. Interesting. Hi, Dr. Pete. I love your newsletter. Thank you. Uh, you're turning me into a PhD. My question is, can you talk about the symptoms of shingles, how to address these symptoms and how to keep this virus in quotes? Is it a virus? She says dormant. Thank you. A good, non-inflammatory diet is first thing, but aspirin is the most generally useful drug for turning off the herpes virus in particular. When you get your nutrition up and use aspirin regularly, that will quiet. The nerves that are are creating the excitement that causes the virus to replicate. Oh, so this little guy gets in there. This herpes virus, and it never kind of goes away and just comes alive sometimes? Yeah, the nucleic acid of it lives in the cell body, and only when the organism is under stress, when the pituitary is activated by a change of season, for example, this activates the virus to travel down the nerve fiber into the skin, where it produces the sore and becomes infectious. And at that point, probably an ointment or a wash containing a dissolved aspirin will help at the surface, but the quieting anti-inflammatory effect of aspirin systemically reduces that continuing process. So keeping your energy up with good food and thyroid supplemented with aspirin as needed is the quickest way to bring a shingle's attack to a close. Yeah, so I guess that would explain, and you hear stories over the years of brides who are so excited that they show up on their wedding day with a cold sore, right? It kind of makes sense sometimes. Emotional, nervous excitement is the major thing. Oh, very simple. Often just a fine stew. A couple more here. Let's see. Thanks for being listening to Dr. Pete for a long time. I'm glad you have him on. Can you ask his thoughts? Is there any connection to Lyme disease and anything he would recommend for someone with Lyme and ALS? ALS? ALS, yes, and Lyme's connection. Oh, well, ALS is the degenerative nerve disease, right? I believe so, yeah, Lou Gehrig's, yeah. Lyme disease is definitely a bacterial, a spirochete-type infection, and it can be cured two or three weeks, maybe using two or three antibiotics at the same time. But there are some doctors that... claim that it's a perpetual thing that takes endless treatment, but really it's very cleanly. Eradicated by a good course of antibiotics, I've had experience only with one person with confirmed ALS and he started changing his diet and behavior right at the very beginning and he met a lot of other patients at the same stage in the neurologist's office and so he watched the course of their disease very similar to his for the first few months, but then suddenly he started getting better as they kept getting worse and all he was doing was changing his hormones and nutrients, things that we've been talking about, but also every day he would shine a bright light on the back of his neck in particular for an hour or more every day, making sure he was getting penetrating light into his nervous system as well as doing all of the anti-inflammatory pro-energetic things and he had reached a point where he bought equipment for using the bathroom, hoists and all of that sort of equipment and quit his job at his own business and was ready basically to become a complete invalid, but then he didn't. Suddenly, you... his improvement started and by the... in less than a year from the time he started, he was completely recovered, sold all of his machinery, and went back to work. At the age of 70 or 71. That's fascinating. Do you think exposure to red light and the various lights that are available ongoing is benefit for the body? I think a plain, like a chicken lamp, a plain clear front light bulb is good. It has all of the spectrum and we aren't sure exactly which wavelengths are the therapeutic ones. Red definitely is part of it, but I think it's good to have orange and yellow at the same time. And those chicken lamps I think you can actually get at Home Depot, right? And you just put them in there? Yeah, ten bucks? Yeah, five dollars they should be. Is anyone doing, here's an interesting one, is anyone doing, Dr. Pete, the William Budd maintenance method for type 1 diabetes today? The urine must be measured to match the glucose going into the glucose going out, doesn't it? Um... Well, it spontaneously does that. The more sugar you eat, the more will come out. Except that, yeah, if you do that, that will reduce the consumption of your good tissues, converting them to sugar. So if you eat as much as you're losing, that will tend to cure the process. It stops the stress, which is destroying your pancreas. And I've only known a few people who decided to get off the program and start eating a balanced, high-carbohydrate diet. And they had the same experience that those doctors did 140 years ago. George says, I'm experimenting with thyroid medicine I did get from Mexico, Patrick. Oh, okay. And my TSH is about 4, and I'm wondering how I could determine the right dosage if I was getting too much. What would be some signs that I'm taking too much? Overheating is the first thing. Overheating, meaning taking your temperature first thing in the morning? No, just feeling too hot, out of breath, and then checking your temperature. Your temperature might get to 99 all day. But if your pulse rate is going 120 at rest, that's definitely too much. So you should aim for a daytime 98.6 and 80 to 85 pulse rate. Wow. So 80 to 85 is normal for a thyroid, normal person? Yeah, for a very metabolically active person who's burning calories intensely. And it's higher even for girls, the pulse? And the what? And it's higher even for women, the pulse, right? Roughly, yeah. A little bit? Mm-hmm. Wow. Women have smaller hearts, so they beat faster for pumping the same amount of blood. I didn't know that. Women have smaller hearts. I think we're just two more, so... Can I use niacin on my left leg only to improve circulation in that leg? And foot, which has gotten pretty bad with MS, I would have to take it internally. Oh. I think, generally, niacinamide, internally, is the safest because big doses of nixinic acid create increased prostaglandins and have a lot of pro-inflammatory things that I don't think are at all good for MS. So niacinamide, does that, in general, increase circulation? Does it do the flushing thing? It improves metabolism by reducing free fatty acids that block oxidation. Leon is in San Diego. I experienced bloating one to two hours after my evening meal. I've done a food list and journal and it doesn't seem to be associated with any food. It happens with all food. I'm wondering if Dr. Pete thinks I could be having not enough acid or not enough enzymes or both. Yeah, and the peristalsis might be a problem, too. So having some fiber in the diet is one way of reducing inflammation and stimulating peristalsis. And then checking your body temperature. Usually a low body temperature goes with sluggish peristalsis. I see. And so that could be causing his problems to bloat because the peristalsis isn't just happening. Yeah, the stomach and intestines just sit there letting any gas that forms stay put and blow up where peristalsis should be squeezing out little bits of gas as they form. I see. And then that would be, different forms of fiber would be the psyllium husks maybe and mushrooms? Yeah, mushrooms are very pleasant. Psyllium husks constipate a few people, but when they work, they're fine. Cooked bamboo shoots are good. For some people, oat bran mush works all right, but it's very starchy. So you keep that going and that causes things to not back up like he's getting. So that's the bloating. That's just not moving downward. Let's see. I think we have one more. Please mention what a chicken lamp is. What's a chicken lamp? Oh, these are chicken lamps where you can get at Home Depot, right Doc? They're the big silver thing that you can put them in with a clamp. You've seen those. You can find them in the electrical department. And a chicken lamp is go to the light department at the Home Depot and they have these red, I guess, are they LED? Near red, Fred. Aren't they lamps? Well, they're usually clear front. The clear front is a lot cheaper. Oh. And it has just as much red light. Really? So you don't even need the red front? No, the red front cuts out blue light, so it gives a red appearance. But the clear front is putting out just as much red radiation. But isn't the blue light an issue for turning off melatonin or is it different blue light from the computer and a television screen? Well, the good thing about the chicken lamp is there's very little blue in it because it runs warmer, less hot. Yeah, yeah. Well, Dr. Pete, good job. We kept you a long time. Thanks for hanging with us. Happy holidays, Merry Christmas to you, and we will see you, I guess, in the third week in January. So have fun and stay out of trouble, and I appreciate you being here once a month. It's really an honor, sir. Oh, okay. Very good. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Dr. Ray Pete, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. Well, we are going to... We're going to take some time off here. It is December 21st, the summer, the winter solstice, all kinds of things. Pluto is getting together with Saturn and all kinds of fun things are happening. Goodness knows, the astrological people are just all kind of at Twitter this time of the year, some of the things that are going on with the winter solstice. And tonight, at a couple hours after sunset, wherever you are, you can go on there and see the whole... the planets doing their little thing. Saturn and... Is it Saturn? Yeah, here they are. It's kind of fun. Well, Saturn and Jupiter. They're like the closest they've been since... 1226. Hello! That's a long time, close as they've been. So the astrological people say some pretty exciting things are going to be happening on planet earth. Things get turned upside down and turned over, and if one kind of wants to morph these ideas into the... The struggle that's going on in our culture to save our republic. And that's what I believe this is. This is not about Donald Trump and Joe Biden, much bigger deal. This is a real, a real third act of a movie, and it is, in my opinion, a struggle. For our republic, to save this country from going the way of a globalist who want to change the whole deal. And this is what it's about, and it's a big deal. You can go on our Parler page, and we talk about it a little bit, but there's a lot of people talking about it. You don't need us, but just keep in touch with us during this end of the year. I'll be in touch on email. If we can do anything for you, please let us know. I'll be around, and we'll see you back on the beginning of January. So who knows what's going to be going on between now and then, and then after January. And so, we're going to see. We'll see what's going on. Lots and lots of very exciting things. This is an interesting story that is out today. President Trump is out today saying we are closer and closer than ever to, uh... succeeding in our second term. So he's got something going on that's way above and beyond what we're being told the possibilities are. But we've been writing about it you'll see him on our parlor thing and you'll see him now I guess we'll go on me we and do that but we've done some shows on that but you do your research and kind of keep in touch and we'll see what happens. Could be a whole brave new world by the time we get together. I guess it'll be January 4th, right? With Adam Bergstrom. So, one last little plug for Surthrival, there's a 21%, 21% sale going on right now if you're listening live on this, 21 December 2020, use promo code INFINITE, today only, I guess it's just until midnight tonight, 21% on all Surthrival products, that would be the Shaga, the Reishi, the Pine Pollen, Elk Velvet Antler, the Vitamin DK2 thing, the Digestive Bitters which we like a lot, Colostrum, I guess that's about it, a lot of great products, Elk Velvet Antler, Pine Pollen, Surthrival, promo code INFINITE, tonight only, today only, celebrating the 21st, the Winter Solstice, 21% off, promo code INFINITE. Okay, so we're out of here, we will see you live back on the 4th of January with Adam Bergstrom, we have all of our videos now being laid out on our website, you don't need to go to YouTube or anywhere else, if you'd like to watch the videos of these people, OneRadioNetwork.com, you'll see the videos, they're all being propagated there, we've no longer doing the Facebook thing, and we're on Parler and MeWe, and we can keep in touch there. This is mostly the MeWe for you all, you all, we say that in Texas, for you all to communicate with one another, you don't need me, and you can, you know, talk amongst yourself, and just be kind and don't get snarky on MeWe, but at least they're a free platform and there's no censorship going on, on MeWe, that we know of, as well as Parler, we're just tired of YouTube and Facebook, and they really are just not very good people, censoring just everything, so, goodness knows what their Karma Dharma is, but we don't want any part of them, so we're just blowing the popsicle stand. It's over. Sorry Mark, we are breaking up, Mr. Zuck, Godspeed. So I love you all very much, thank you for everything, it's been an honor to be here, it's been quite a year, this is a wrap for 2020, we've all been through quite a bit, just depending on how much of the movie that we bought into during the year, and, um. We've all bought into a little bit of it, so, um, but we've made it through, we're stronger than we ever were. Stronger than we ever were. Or, whatever. I think we have a note here from Adam. Oh, Adam wants to be friends on MeWe. Yeah, I'll do that. Okay. Adam has a miwi thing, visit with Adam on miwi as well. Remember 20 years ago Zuckerberg started like a miwi. I think we have 75 friends or something, doesn't matter. All right kids, have fun, take care of yourself. I love you. May the blessings be. Take care. You